once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> why was there great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country ? <SEP> the people wished their king all that was good . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> what type of ruler was the king ? <SEP> kind and just . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> who entered the room while the child lay in its cradle ? <SEP> a strange - looking old woman . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> what did the old woman say the child must not be allowed the do ? <SEP> be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> what would happen if the child went under the open sky before she was full fifteen years of age ? <SEP> the mountain troll would fetch her . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who went forth into the world and fetched back a beautiful queen . and after they had been married a while god gave them a little daughter . then there was great rejoicing in the city and throughout the country , for the people wished their king all that was good , since he was kind and just . while the child lay in its cradle , a strange - looking old woman entered the room , and no one knew who she was nor whence she came . the old woman spoke a verse over the child , and said that she must not be allowed out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age , since otherwise the mountain troll would fetch her . when the king heard this he took her words to heart , and posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> what did the king do because of the old woman's words ? <SEP> posted guards to watch over the little princess so that she would not get out under the open sky . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
some time afterward god gave the royal pair another little daughter , and again the whole kingdom rejoiced . but the wise old woman once more put in an appearance , and warned the king not to let the princess out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age . and then , after a time , god gave the royal pair a third daughter . this time , too , the old woman appeared , and repeated what she had already twice said . then the king was much grieved ; for he loved his children above everything in the world . therefore he gave strict orders that the three princesses were always to be kept beneath the roof of the castle , and that none were to dare transgress against this command . <SEP> why did the king grieve ? <SEP> he loved his children above everything else in the world . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
some time afterward god gave the royal pair another little daughter , and again the whole kingdom rejoiced . but the wise old woman once more put in an appearance , and warned the king not to let the princess out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age . and then , after a time , god gave the royal pair a third daughter . this time , too , the old woman appeared , and repeated what she had already twice said . then the king was much grieved ; for he loved his children above everything in the world . therefore he gave strict orders that the three princesses were always to be kept beneath the roof of the castle , and that none were to dare transgress against this command . <SEP> how many princesses did the king and queen have ? <SEP> three times . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
some time afterward god gave the royal pair another little daughter , and again the whole kingdom rejoiced . but the wise old woman once more put in an appearance , and warned the king not to let the princess out under the open sky until she were full fifteen years of age . and then , after a time , god gave the royal pair a third daughter . this time , too , the old woman appeared , and repeated what she had already twice said . then the king was much grieved ; for he loved his children above everything in the world . therefore he gave strict orders that the three princesses were always to be kept beneath the roof of the castle , and that none were to dare transgress against this command . <SEP> where were the princesses to be kept ? <SEP> beneath the roof of the castle . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
now a long time passed , and the king 's daughters grew up and became the most beautiful maidens of whom one has ever heard tell . then war broke out and the king , their father , had to leave them . one day , while he was away at war , the three princesses were sitting in the window and looking out , watching the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . and they felt a great desire to play with the lovely flowers , and begged their guards to let them go into the garden for a little while . but this their guards would not allow , for they feared the king 's anger . yet the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly that they could not deny their pleas and they let them have their way . but the princesses did not have long to walk about , for no sooner were they beneath the open sky , than a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless ; though search was made in every direction . <SEP> what did the three princesses do while sitting in the window ? <SEP> looked out and watched the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now a long time passed , and the king 's daughters grew up and became the most beautiful maidens of whom one has ever heard tell . then war broke out and the king , their father , had to leave them . one day , while he was away at war , the three princesses were sitting in the window and looking out , watching the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . and they felt a great desire to play with the lovely flowers , and begged their guards to let them go into the garden for a little while . but this their guards would not allow , for they feared the king 's anger . yet the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly that they could not deny their pleas and they let them have their way . but the princesses did not have long to walk about , for no sooner were they beneath the open sky , than a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless ; though search was made in every direction . <SEP> why did the guards not allow the princesses to go outside ? <SEP> they feared the king 's anger . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now a long time passed , and the king 's daughters grew up and became the most beautiful maidens of whom one has ever heard tell . then war broke out and the king , their father , had to leave them . one day , while he was away at war , the three princesses were sitting in the window and looking out , watching the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . and they felt a great desire to play with the lovely flowers , and begged their guards to let them go into the garden for a little while . but this their guards would not allow , for they feared the king 's anger . yet the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly that they could not deny their pleas and they let them have their way . but the princesses did not have long to walk about , for no sooner were they beneath the open sky , than a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless ; though search was made in every direction . <SEP> why could the guards not deny the king's daughters pleas ? <SEP> the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now a long time passed , and the king 's daughters grew up and became the most beautiful maidens of whom one has ever heard tell . then war broke out and the king , their father , had to leave them . one day , while he was away at war , the three princesses were sitting in the window and looking out , watching the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . and they felt a great desire to play with the lovely flowers , and begged their guards to let them go into the garden for a little while . but this their guards would not allow , for they feared the king 's anger . yet the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly that they could not deny their pleas and they let them have their way . but the princesses did not have long to walk about , for no sooner were they beneath the open sky , than a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless ; though search was made in every direction . <SEP> what happened because the three daughters went outside ? <SEP> a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
now a long time passed , and the king 's daughters grew up and became the most beautiful maidens of whom one has ever heard tell . then war broke out and the king , their father , had to leave them . one day , while he was away at war , the three princesses were sitting in the window and looking out , watching the sun shine on the little flowers in the garden . and they felt a great desire to play with the lovely flowers , and begged their guards to let them go into the garden for a little while . but this their guards would not allow , for they feared the king 's anger . yet the king 's daughters pleaded so very sweetly that they could not deny their pleas and they let them have their way . but the princesses did not have long to walk about , for no sooner were they beneath the open sky , than a cloud came suddenly down , and bore them off , and all attempts to regain possession of them were fruitless ; though search was made in every direction . <SEP> what did the guards do when the princesses disappeared ? <SEP> search was made in every direction . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
then the whole kingdom mourned and grieved , and one may imagine that the king was anything but happy when he returned home and learned all that had happened . yet what is done can not be undone , and in the end they had to resign themselves to it . and since the king knew of no other way to help himself , he had proclaimed throughout the kingdom that whoever would deliver his three daughters out of the power of the mountain troll should have one of them for his bride , and with her half of the kingdom . when this became known in foreign lands , many youths set forth with horses and followers to seek the princesses . at the king 's court were two princes who also went forth to see whether fortune would be kind to them . they armed themselves in the best possible way with coats of mail and costly weapons , and bragged and boasted that they would not return without having done what they set out to do . <SEP> how will the king feel when he learns what happened ? <SEP> angry . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
then the whole kingdom mourned and grieved , and one may imagine that the king was anything but happy when he returned home and learned all that had happened . yet what is done can not be undone , and in the end they had to resign themselves to it . and since the king knew of no other way to help himself , he had proclaimed throughout the kingdom that whoever would deliver his three daughters out of the power of the mountain troll should have one of them for his bride , and with her half of the kingdom . when this became known in foreign lands , many youths set forth with horses and followers to seek the princesses . at the king 's court were two princes who also went forth to see whether fortune would be kind to them . they armed themselves in the best possible way with coats of mail and costly weapons , and bragged and boasted that they would not return without having done what they set out to do . <SEP> how did the king plan to get his daughters back ? <SEP> whoever would deliver his three daughters out of the power of the mountain troll should have one of them for his bride , and with her half of the kingdom . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
and now we will let the king 's sons ride out over the world on their quest , while we turn to other people . far , far out in the wild wood there lived a poor widow , who had an only son who drove his mother 's pigs to pasture every day . and as he crossed the fields , he whittled himself a flute , and amused himself playing it . and he played so sweetly that he warmed the cockles of the hearts of all those who heard him . <SEP> where did a poor widow live ? <SEP> far , far out in the wild wood . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
and now we will let the king 's sons ride out over the world on their quest , while we turn to other people . far , far out in the wild wood there lived a poor widow , who had an only son who drove his mother 's pigs to pasture every day . and as he crossed the fields , he whittled himself a flute , and amused himself playing it . and he played so sweetly that he warmed the cockles of the hearts of all those who heard him . <SEP> what did the boy do while he crossed the fields ? <SEP> whittled himself a flute , and amused himself playing it . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . <SEP> who came along while the young-swine herd sat in the woof ? <SEP> an old , old man . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . <SEP> how did the boy feel about the great dog ? <SEP> happy . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . <SEP> why was the dog not like other dogs ? <SEP> whatever you told him to take hold of he would seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . <SEP> what did the youth give up in exchange for the dog ? <SEP> the gray pig . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
in the evening he called his dog and drove his pigs home . but when his old mother heard that he had given away the gray pig for a dog , she was angry beyond measure , and gave her son a good drubbing . the youth told her to calm herself ; but all in vain , the longer it lasted the more furious she became . then , since he did not know what else to do , he called out to his dog : " take hold ! " at once the dog ran up , seized the old mother and held her so tightly that she could not move . but otherwise he did her no harm . and now she had to promise her son to make the best of the matter , and then they were friends once more . <SEP> how did the youth's old mother feel about the exchange ? <SEP> angry beyond measure . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
in the evening he called his dog and drove his pigs home . but when his old mother heard that he had given away the gray pig for a dog , she was angry beyond measure , and gave her son a good drubbing . the youth told her to calm herself ; but all in vain , the longer it lasted the more furious she became . then , since he did not know what else to do , he called out to his dog : " take hold ! " at once the dog ran up , seized the old mother and held her so tightly that she could not move . but otherwise he did her no harm . and now she had to promise her son to make the best of the matter , and then they were friends once more . <SEP> why did the youth command the dog to take hold ? <SEP> he did not know what else to do . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
in the evening he called his dog and drove his pigs home . but when his old mother heard that he had given away the gray pig for a dog , she was angry beyond measure , and gave her son a good drubbing . the youth told her to calm herself ; but all in vain , the longer it lasted the more furious she became . then , since he did not know what else to do , he called out to his dog : " take hold ! " at once the dog ran up , seized the old mother and held her so tightly that she could not move . but otherwise he did her no harm . and now she had to promise her son to make the best of the matter , and then they were friends once more . <SEP> what happened because the woman had to promise her to make the best of the matter ? <SEP> they were friends once more . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
the following day the youth went to the wood again , with his dog and the two pigs . after a time he sat down and played his flute as usual , and the dog danced to his playing with such skill , that it was nothing short of a miracle . and as he was sitting there , the old man with the gray beard came out of the wood again , and with him another dog , no smaller than the first . when the youth saw the handsome beast he thought to himself : " if a fellow had that dog to keep him company here where it is so lonely , he need have no fear . " when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth did not lose any time , but agreed to close the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up one of his pigs in place of it . then the old man went his way . yet before he left he added : " you have reason to be well satisfied with your purchase , for this dog is not like the other dogs . his name is ' tear ! ' and if you give him something to tear , he will tear it to pieces , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " then they parted . <SEP> how will the youth's mother feel when she sees he has exchanged a pig for another dog ? <SEP> angry . <SEP> prediction <SEP> explicit
but the youth was happy in the idea that he had made a capital exchange ; although he knew that his old mother would not be content with it . and when evening came , and the youth went home , his old mother was no less angry than she had been before . but this time she did not venture to beat her son , because she was afraid of the great dogs . yet , as is usual , when women have scolded long enough , they stop of their own accord - and that is what happened in this case . the youth and his mother made peace with each other ; though the mother thought to herself that the damage done could not well be repaired . <SEP> why did the mother not venture to beat her son ? <SEP> she was afraid of the great dog . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . the following day the youth went to the wood again , with his dog and the two pigs . after a time he sat down and played his flute as usual , and the dog danced to his playing with such skill , that it was nothing short of a miracle . and as he was sitting there , the old man with the gray beard came out of the wood again , and with him another dog , no smaller than the first . when the youth saw the handsome beast he thought to himself : " if a fellow had that dog to keep him company here where it is so lonely , he need have no fear . " when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth did not lose any time , but agreed to close the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up one of his pigs in place of it . then the old man went his way . yet before he left he added : " you have reason to be well satisfied with your purchase , for this dog is not like the other dogs . his name is ' tear ! ' and if you give him something to tear , he will tear it to pieces , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " then they parted . on the third day the youth went into the wood again with his pig and two dogs . he felt very happy , seated himself on a tree - stump and played his flute as usual . and the dogs danced to his playing with such skill that it was a pleasure to watch them . as the youth was sitting there in peace and quiet , the old gray - beard once more came out of the wood . this time he had a third dog with him , who was as large as both the others together . when the youth saw the handsome animal he could not help but think : " if a fellow had this dog to keep him company in the wilderness , he would have no cause for complaint . " the old man at once began : " that is why i have come , in order to sell my dog , for i can see you would like to have him . " the youth was at once willing and agreed to close the bargain . so he received the great dog and gave up his last pig in place of it . then the old man went his way .  <SEP> how many times did the boy make an exchange with the old gray-beard ? <SEP> three times . <SEP> action <SEP> implicit
yet before he went he said : " you will be satisfied with your exchange , for this dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' hark ! ' and his hearing is so keen that he hears everything that happens , though it be happening many miles away . he even hears the grass and the trees grow . " then they parted in the friendliest spirit . but the youth was happy in the thought that now he need fear nothing in the world . and then , when evening came on , and the swine - herd went home , his mother was very sad to think that her son had sold all they possessed . but the youth told her to be of good courage , since he would see to it that they did not suffer want . and when he spoke to her in such a cheerful manner , she grew content again , and decided that he had spoken in wise and manly fashion . then when day dawned the youth went hunting with his dogs , and came back at evening with as much game as he could possibly carry . and he continued to go hunting in this way for a time until his old mother 's store - room was well provided with meat and all sorts of good things . then he bade his mother a fond farewell , called his dogs , and said he was going to wander out into the world and try his fortune . <SEP> why was the youth happy ? <SEP> he thought that now he need fear nothing in the world . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
yet before he went he said : " you will be satisfied with your exchange , for this dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' hark ! ' and his hearing is so keen that he hears everything that happens , though it be happening many miles away . he even hears the grass and the trees grow . " then they parted in the friendliest spirit . but the youth was happy in the thought that now he need fear nothing in the world . and then , when evening came on , and the swine - herd went home , his mother was very sad to think that her son had sold all they possessed . but the youth told her to be of good courage , since he would see to it that they did not suffer want . and when he spoke to her in such a cheerful manner , she grew content again , and decided that he had spoken in wise and manly fashion . then when day dawned the youth went hunting with his dogs , and came back at evening with as much game as he could possibly carry . and he continued to go hunting in this way for a time until his old mother 's store - room was well provided with meat and all sorts of good things . then he bade his mother a fond farewell , called his dogs , and said he was going to wander out into the world and try his fortune . <SEP> how did the dogs help the boy and his mother not suffer want ? <SEP> the dogs were good hunters . <SEP> action <SEP> implicit
and he fared forth over mountains and tangled ways , and came into the heart of a sombre forest . there he met the gray - beard of whom i have already told you . and when he met him the youth was much pleased , and said : " good - day , grandfather , and thanks for the last time ! " and the old man replied : " good - day to you , and whither away ? " the youth answered : " i am wandering out into the world to see what fortune has in store for me . " then the old man said : " keep right on going till you come to the royal castle , and there your fortune will take a turn . " and with that they parted . the youth followed the old man 's advice and for a time wandered on straight ahead . when he came to a tavern he played his flute and let his dogs dance , and was never at a lack for bed and board , and whatever else he might want . <SEP> where did the old man say the youth's fortune will turn ? <SEP> the royal castle . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
after he had wandered long and far , he at length came to a great city , whose streets were filled with people . the youth wondered what it all meant , and at last reached the spot where , to the sound of bell , the king 's proclamation was being cried - that whoever should deliver the three princesses out of the power of the troll , would receive one of them , and half the kingdom as well . now he understood what the old man had meant . he called his dogs , and went to the king 's castle . <SEP> what will the youth do at the king's castle ? <SEP> request to search for his daughters . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
but there all had been grief and mourning since the day the king 's daughters had disappeared . and of them all the king and queen were the most sorrowful . then the youth went to the keeper of the door , and asked him whether he might play and show his dogs before the king . the courtiers were willing , for they hoped it might make him feel more cheerful . so he was admitted and allowed to show his tricks . and when the king had heard him play , and had seen the skillful dancing of his dogs , he grew quite merry , and none had seen him as happy during all the seven long years that had passed since he had lost his daughters . <SEP> how did the king feel when he heard the youth's playing and saw the skillful dancing of his dogs ? <SEP> merry . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
when the dance was over , the king asked the youth what he asked as a reward for having given him such a pleasure . the youth answered : " my lord king , i did not come to you to win gold and gear . but i have another request to make : that you allow me to set out and search for your three daughters , carried away by a mountain troll . " when the king heard this his thoughts once more grew gloomy , and he replied : " you need not even think of delivering my daughters . it is no child 's play , and your betters have already attempted it in vain . yet should it really come to pass that you deliver one of the princesses , you may be sure that i will not break my word . " so he took leave of the king and set forth . and he decided to take no rest until he had found what he sought . <SEP> why did the king's thoughts once more grow gloomy ? <SEP> the youth had asked about the king 's three daughters . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
now it chanced that the young swine - herd once sat in the wood blowing his flute , while his three pigs were digging under the pine - roots . and an old , old man came along , with a beard so long and so broad that it hung far below his girdle . the old man had a large , powerful dog with him . when the youth saw the great dog , he thought to himself : " if a fellow had a dog like that to keep him company here in the wilderness , he might consider himself lucky . " and when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth was at once willing , and closed the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up the gray pig in place of it . then the old man went his way . but as he left he said : " you have reason to be satisfied with our exchange , for that dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' take hold ! ' and whatever you tell him to take hold of he will seize , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " thereupon they parted , and the youth thought that fortune had indeed favored him . the following day the youth went to the wood again , with his dog and the two pigs . after a time he sat down and played his flute as usual , and the dog danced to his playing with such skill , that it was nothing short of a miracle . and as he was sitting there , the old man with the gray beard came out of the wood again , and with him another dog , no smaller than the first . when the youth saw the handsome beast he thought to himself : " if a fellow had that dog to keep him company here where it is so lonely , he need have no fear . " when the old man noticed this , he began : " that is why i have come , for i want to exchange my dog for one of your pigs . " the youth did not lose any time , but agreed to close the bargain . he received the great dog , and gave up one of his pigs in place of it . then the old man went his way . yet before he left he added : " you have reason to be well satisfied with your purchase , for this dog is not like the other dogs . his name is ' tear ! ' and if you give him something to tear , he will tear it to pieces , even though it were the grimmest of trolls . " then they parted . yet before he went he said : " you will be satisfied with your exchange , for this dog is not like other dogs . his name is ' hark ! ' and his hearing is so keen that he hears everything that happens , though it be happening many miles away . he even hears the grass and the trees grow . " then they parted in the friendliest spirit . but the youth was happy in the thought that now he need fear nothing in the world . and then , when evening came on , and the swine - herd went home , his mother was very sad to think that her son had sold all they possessed . but the youth told her to be of good courage , since he would see to it that they did not suffer want . and when he spoke to her in such a cheerful manner , she grew content again , and decided that he had spoken in wise and manly fashion . then when day dawned the youth went hunting with his dogs , and came back at evening with as much game as he could possibly carry . and he continued to go hunting in this way for a time until his old mother 's store - room was well provided with meat and all sorts of good things . then he bade his mother a fond farewell , called his dogs , and said he was going to wander out into the world and try his fortune . when the dance was over , the king asked the youth what he asked as a reward for having given him such a pleasure . the youth answered : " my lord king , i did not come to you to win gold and gear . but i have another request to make : that you allow me to set out and search for your three daughters , carried away by a mountain troll . " when the king heard this his thoughts once more grew gloomy , and he replied : " you need not even think of delivering my daughters . it is no child 's play , and your betters have already attempted it in vain . yet should it really come to pass that you deliver one of the princesses , you may be sure that i will not break my word . " so he took leave of the king and set forth . and he decided to take no rest until he had found what he sought .  <SEP> who will help the youth rescue the princesses ? <SEP> his dogs . <SEP> prediction <SEP> explicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . <SEP> what did "hark!" tell that master he had heard at a high mountain ? <SEP> the king 's daughter . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . <SEP> why did the dogs break down the door into the mountain ? <SEP> the youth ordered his dogs . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . <SEP> who did the youth see when he stepped into the mountain ? <SEP> a lovely maiden . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . <SEP> why did the youth want to wait for the giant's return ? <SEP> he wanted to fight the giant . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . <SEP> how will the giant feel when he sees that youth has broken in ? <SEP> angry . <SEP> prediction <SEP> explicit
while they were talking together , the giant came riding along on his colt shod with gold . when he saw the gate standing open he grew furiously angry and shouted till the whole mountain shook : " who has broken my mountain door ? " the youth boldly answered : " i did , and now i shall break you as well ! ' take hold ! ' seize him ! ' tear ! ' and ' hark ! ' tear him into a thousand pieces . " no sooner had he spoken than the dogs rushed up , fell upon the giant and tore him into countless pieces . then the princess was happy beyond measure and said : " god be praised , now i am freed ! " and she fell upon the youth 's neck and gave him a kiss . but he did not wish to stay there any longer , saddled the giant 's colt , loaded it with all the gold and gear he found in the mountain , and hastily went away with the king 's beautiful daughter . <SEP> what did the  youth do after he slayed the giant ? <SEP> saddled the giant 's colt , loaded it with all the gold and gear he found in the mountain , and hastily went away with the king 's beautiful daughter . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
they passed on together a long distance . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came quickly back to his master , and told him he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's second daughter sitting within it winding golden yarn , and that the troll himself was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain with his faithful dogs . now when they drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the giant is only eight miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , no matter which way . and when he stepped into the interior of the mountain he saw a lovely maiden sitting in the mountain hall , winding golden yarn on a golden windle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away , for if the troll comes your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth told her why he had come , and said that he would await the troll 's return quite undisturbed . <SEP> what did the youth do when "hark!" told him of the second daughter ? <SEP> hurried toward the mountain with his faithful dogs . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
while they were still talking together , the giant came riding on his steed shod with gold , and drew up outside the mountain . when he noticed that the great door was open , he grew furiously angry , and shouted till the mountain trembled to its very roots . he said : " who has broken my mountain door ? " the youth boldly answered : " i have , and now i shall break you as well ! ' take hold , ' seize him ! ' tear ! ' and ' hark ! ' tear him into a thousand pieces ! " the dogs at once rushed up , threw themselves upon the giant , and tore him into as many pieces as leaves fall in the autumn . then the king 's daughter was happy beyond measure and cried : " god be praised , now i am freed ! " and she fell upon the youth 's neck and gave him a kiss . but he led the princess to her sister , and one can imagine - how glad they were to see each other again . then the youth packed up all the treasures he found in the mountain hall , loaded them on the giant 's steed , and went his way with the king 's two daughters . and they wandered along for a long time . <SEP> how did the two princesses feel when they were reunited ? <SEP> glad . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . they passed on together a long distance . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came quickly back to his master , and told him he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's second daughter sitting within it winding golden yarn , and that the troll himself was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain with his faithful dogs . now when they drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the giant is only eight miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , no matter which way . and when he stepped into the interior of the mountain he saw a lovely maiden sitting in the mountain hall , winding golden yarn on a golden windle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away , for if the troll comes your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth told her why he had come , and said that he would await the troll 's return quite undisturbed . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came hastily to his master and told him that he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's third daughter sitting within and weaving a web of gold , and that the troll was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hastened toward the mountain , followed by his three dogs . when he drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose , for the giant is only five miles away . i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " then the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , by hook or by crook . and when he stepped into the mountain , he saw a girl sitting in the mountain hall , weaving a web of gold . but this maiden was lovely beyond all measure , with a loveliness exceeding all the youth had ever thought to find on earth . he now went up and greeted the lovely maiden . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away before the troll comes , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was full of confidence , and said he would gladly venture his life for the king 's lovely daughter .  <SEP> who found all three princesses ? <SEP> " hark ! " . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
now he passed through many broad kingdoms without meeting with any special adventures . and wherever he went his dogs followed him . " hark ! " ran along and listened for anything worth hearing to be heard around them ; " take hold ! " carried his master 's knapsack and " tear ! " who was the strongest , carried his master when the latter was weary . one day " hark ! " came running up hastily , and told his master that he had gone to a high mountain , and had heard the king 's daughter , who sat within it and span , and that the troll was not at home . this greatly pleased the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain together with his three dogs . when they got there " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the troll is only ten miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth now ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , and they did . and as he stepped into the mountain he saw a lovely maiden , sitting in the mountain - hall , winding a golden thread on a golden spindle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake hasten away before the troll returns home , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was unafraid , and said that he would await the giant 's return without fear . they passed on together a long distance . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came quickly back to his master , and told him he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's second daughter sitting within it winding golden yarn , and that the troll himself was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hurried toward the mountain with his faithful dogs . now when they drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose . the giant is only eight miles away , and i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , no matter which way . and when he stepped into the interior of the mountain he saw a lovely maiden sitting in the mountain hall , winding golden yarn on a golden windle . the youth went up and greeted the lovely girl . the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away , for if the troll comes your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth told her why he had come , and said that he would await the troll 's return quite undisturbed . then , one day , " hark ! " who always ran ahead scouting , came hastily to his master and told him that he had been near a high mountain , and had heard the king 's third daughter sitting within and weaving a web of gold , and that the troll was not at home . this was very welcome news for the youth , and he hastened toward the mountain , followed by his three dogs . when he drew near " hark ! " said : " there is no time to lose , for the giant is only five miles away . i can already hear the golden horse - shoes of his steed ringing on the stones . " then the youth at once ordered his dogs to break down the door into the mountain , by hook or by crook . and when he stepped into the mountain , he saw a girl sitting in the mountain hall , weaving a web of gold . but this maiden was lovely beyond all measure , with a loveliness exceeding all the youth had ever thought to find on earth . he now went up and greeted the lovely maiden . then the king 's daughter was much surprised and said : " who are you that dare to venture into the giant 's hall ? during all the seven long years i have been sitting here in the mountain i have never yet seen a human being . " and she added : " for heaven 's sake , hasten away before the troll comes , or else your life will be forfeit ! " but the youth was full of confidence , and said he would gladly venture his life for the king 's lovely daughter .  <SEP> how did "hark!" know where the three princesses were located ? <SEP> he heard them . <SEP> action <SEP> implicit
while they were still talking the giant came riding along on his colt shod with gold , and drew up at the foot of the mountain . when he went in he saw that uninvited guests had arrived , and was much frightened ; for well he knew of the fate that had befallen his brothers . he therefore thought it advisable to fall back upon cunning and treachery , for he had not dared to venture on open battle . for that reason he made many fine speeches , and was very friendly and smooth with the youth . then he told the king 's daughter to prepare a meal in order to show his guest all hospitality . <SEP> why was the giant frightened ? <SEP> he knew of the fate that had befallen his brothers . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
while they were still talking the giant came riding along on his colt shod with gold , and drew up at the foot of the mountain . when he went in he saw that uninvited guests had arrived , and was much frightened ; for well he knew of the fate that had befallen his brothers . he therefore thought it advisable to fall back upon cunning and treachery , for he had not dared to venture on open battle . for that reason he made many fine speeches , and was very friendly and smooth with the youth . then he told the king 's daughter to prepare a meal in order to show his guest all hospitality . <SEP> why did the giant make many fine speeches and was very friendly and smooth with the youth ? <SEP> he thought it advisable to fall back upon cunning and treachery , for he had not dared to venture on open battle . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
and since the troll knew so well how to talk , the youth allowed himself to be beguiled by his smooth words , and forgot to be on his guard . he sat down to the table with the giant ; but the king 's daughter wept secretly , and the dogs were very restless ; though no one paid them any attention . when the giant and his guest had finished their meal , the youth said : " now that i have satisfied my hunger , give me something to quench my thirst ! " the giant replied : " on the mountain - top is a spring in which bubbles the clearest wine ; but i have no one to fetch it . " the youth answered : " if that be all that is lacking , one of my dogs can go up . " then the giant laughed in his false heart , for nothing suited him better than to have the youth send away his dogs . the youth ordered " take hold ! " to go to the spring , and the giant handed him a great tankard . the dog went ; yet it was easy to see that he did not go willingly ; and the time passed and passed and he did not return . <SEP> why did the youth forget to be on his guard ? <SEP> the troll knew so well how to talk . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
and since the troll knew so well how to talk , the youth allowed himself to be beguiled by his smooth words , and forgot to be on his guard . he sat down to the table with the giant ; but the king 's daughter wept secretly , and the dogs were very restless ; though no one paid them any attention . when the giant and his guest had finished their meal , the youth said : " now that i have satisfied my hunger , give me something to quench my thirst ! " the giant replied : " on the mountain - top is a spring in which bubbles the clearest wine ; but i have no one to fetch it . " the youth answered : " if that be all that is lacking , one of my dogs can go up . " then the giant laughed in his false heart , for nothing suited him better than to have the youth send away his dogs . the youth ordered " take hold ! " to go to the spring , and the giant handed him a great tankard . the dog went ; yet it was easy to see that he did not go willingly ; and the time passed and passed and he did not return . <SEP> what will happen because the youth sent his dogs away ? <SEP> the troll will attack him . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
thus a long time passed ; but nothing was heard of the wine nor of the dogs . then the giant said : " i can see that your dogs do not do as you bid them , otherwise we should not have to sit here and thirst . i think it would be well if you let ' hark ! ' go up and see why they do not come back . " the youth agreed , and told his third dog to hurry to the spring . but " hark ! " did not want to , and instead crept whining to his master 's feet . then the youth grew angry and drove him off by force . and when he reached the top of the mountain he shared the fate of the others , a high wall rose round about him , and he was made a prisoner by the giant 's magic power . <SEP> what happened when the dogs reached the top of the mountain ? <SEP> a high wall rose around them , and they were made a prisoner by the giant 's magic power . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
now that all three dogs were gone , the giant rose , and suddenly looked altogether different . he took down a long sword from the wall , and said : " now i will do what my brothers did not do , and you must die at once , for you are in my power ! " then the youth was frightened , and he regretted he had allowed his dogs to leave him . he said : " i do not ask for my life , since in any event the time will come when i must die . but i would like to repeat the lord 's prayer , and play a psalm on my flute , for such is the custom in my country . " the giant granted his prayer , but said that he would not wait long . so the youth kneeled and began to blow his flute till it sounded over hill and dale . and that very moment the magic wall was broken and the dogs were freed . <SEP> how did the youth feel when all three dogs were gone, and the giant rose ? <SEP> frightened . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
now that all three dogs were gone , the giant rose , and suddenly looked altogether different . he took down a long sword from the wall , and said : " now i will do what my brothers did not do , and you must die at once , for you are in my power ! " then the youth was frightened , and he regretted he had allowed his dogs to leave him . he said : " i do not ask for my life , since in any event the time will come when i must die . but i would like to repeat the lord 's prayer , and play a psalm on my flute , for such is the custom in my country . " the giant granted his prayer , but said that he would not wait long . so the youth kneeled and began to blow his flute till it sounded over hill and dale . and that very moment the magic wall was broken and the dogs were freed . <SEP> what did the youth ask to do ? <SEP> play a psalm on his flute . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now when the king 's daughters met again there was great joy , as may well be imagined , and all thanked the youth for delivering them out of the power of the mountain trolls . but the youth fell deeply in love with the youngest princess , and they promised to be true to each other . so the king 's daughters passed on their way with music and merriment of every kind , and the youth served them with all the honor and courtesy due maidens of gentle birth . and while they were underway the princesses toyed with the youth 's hair , and each tied her golden ring in his locks for remembrance . <SEP> who did the youth fall deeply in love with ? <SEP> the youngest princess . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
one day while they were still underway , they met two wanderers , who were traveling the same road . the clothes of the two strangers were torn and their feet were sore , and their whole appearance showed that they had a long journey behind them . the youth stopped his wagon , and asked them who they were and whence they came . the strangers answered that they were two princes , and had gone forth to search for the three maidens in the mountain . but fortune had not favored them ; and now they had to return home more like journeymen than kings ' sons . when the youth heard this he felt sorry for the two wanderers , and asked whether they would like to ride with him in his handsome wagon . the princes thanked him profusely for his offer . they drove on together , and came to the kingdom over which the father of the princesses reigned . <SEP> who were the two wanderers ? <SEP> two princes . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
now when the princes learned that the youth had delivered the king 's three daughters , a great jealousy took possession of them , and they thought of how badly they had fared in their own venture . and they took counsel together as to how they might get the better of the youth , and win power and glory for themselves . but they hid their evil plot till a favorable opportunity offered for carrying it out . then they suddenly threw themselves on their comrade , seized him by the throat and strangled him . and then they threatened to kill the princesses if they did not swear to keep silence . and since the king 's daughters were in the power of the princes , they did not dare say no . but they felt very sorry for the youth who had given up his life for them , and the youngest princess mourned with all her heart , and all her happiness was at an end . <SEP> why did the two princes seize the youth by the throat and strangle him ? <SEP> they were jealous of the youth . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
after this great wrong the princes drove to the royal castle , and one may well imagine how happy the king was to get back his three daughters . in the meantime the poor youth lay like dead off in a gorge in the forest . yet he was not quite dead , and his faithful dogs lay about him , kept him warm , and licked his wounds . and they did not stop until their master came back to life again . when he was once more well and strong he set out , and after many difficulties came to the royal castle in which the princesses dwelt . when he came in the whole court was full of joy and merriment , and from the king 's hall came the sound of dancing and string music . that surprised him greatly , and he asked what it all meant . the serving - man answered : " you must come from far away , since you do not know that the king has regained his daughters who were in the power of the mountain troll . this is the oldest princess 's wedding - day . "  <SEP> why was the whole court full of joy and merriment ? <SEP> the three princesses had returned . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
once upon a time there was a king who was the wisest in all of the world . so wise was he that no one had ever befooled him , which is a rare thing , i can tell you . now , this king had a daughter who was as pretty as a ripe apple , so that there was no end to the number of the lads who came asking to marry her . every day there were two or three of them dawdling around the house , so that at last the old king grew tired of having them always about . so he sent word far and near that whoever should befool him might have the princess and half of the kingdom to boot , for he thought that it would be a wise man indeed who could trick him . but the king also said , that whoever should try to befool him and should fail , should have a good whipping . this was to keep all foolish fellows away . the princess was so pretty that there was no lack of lads who came to have a try for her and half of the kingdom , but every one of these went away with a sore back and no luck . <SEP> who was as pretty as a ripe apple ? <SEP> the king 's daughter . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king who was the wisest in all of the world . so wise was he that no one had ever befooled him , which is a rare thing , i can tell you . now , this king had a daughter who was as pretty as a ripe apple , so that there was no end to the number of the lads who came asking to marry her . every day there were two or three of them dawdling around the house , so that at last the old king grew tired of having them always about . so he sent word far and near that whoever should befool him might have the princess and half of the kingdom to boot , for he thought that it would be a wise man indeed who could trick him . but the king also said , that whoever should try to befool him and should fail , should have a good whipping . this was to keep all foolish fellows away . the princess was so pretty that there was no lack of lads who came to have a try for her and half of the kingdom , but every one of these went away with a sore back and no luck . <SEP> why were two or three men dawdling around the house every day ? <SEP> they wanted to marry the king 's daughter . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
now , there was a man who was well off in the world , and who had three sons ; the first was named peter , and the second was named paul . peter and paul thought themselves as wise as anybody in all of the world , and their father thought as they did . as for the youngest son , he was named boots . nobody thought anything of him except that he was silly , for he did nothing but sit poking in the warm ashes all of the day . one morning peter spoke up and said that he was going to the town to have a try at befooling the king , for it would be a fine thing to have a princess in the family . his father did not say no , for if anybody was wise enough to befool the king , peter was the lad . so , after peter had eaten a good breakfast , off he set for the town , right foot foremost . after a while he came to the king 's house and - rap ! tap ! tap!-he knocked at the door . well ; what did he want ? <SEP> how many sons did the well off man have ? <SEP> three . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
now , there was a man who was well off in the world , and who had three sons ; the first was named peter , and the second was named paul . peter and paul thought themselves as wise as anybody in all of the world , and their father thought as they did . as for the youngest son , he was named boots . nobody thought anything of him except that he was silly , for he did nothing but sit poking in the warm ashes all of the day . one morning peter spoke up and said that he was going to the town to have a try at befooling the king , for it would be a fine thing to have a princess in the family . his father did not say no , for if anybody was wise enough to befool the king , peter was the lad . so , after peter had eaten a good breakfast , off he set for the town , right foot foremost . after a while he came to the king 's house and - rap ! tap ! tap!-he knocked at the door . well ; what did he want ? <SEP> what did boots do all day ? <SEP> nothing but sit poking in the warm ashes . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now , there was a man who was well off in the world , and who had three sons ; the first was named peter , and the second was named paul . peter and paul thought themselves as wise as anybody in all of the world , and their father thought as they did . as for the youngest son , he was named boots . nobody thought anything of him except that he was silly , for he did nothing but sit poking in the warm ashes all of the day . one morning peter spoke up and said that he was going to the town to have a try at befooling the king , for it would be a fine thing to have a princess in the family . his father did not say no , for if anybody was wise enough to befool the king , peter was the lad . so , after peter had eaten a good breakfast , off he set for the town , right foot foremost . after a while he came to the king 's house and - rap ! tap ! tap!-he knocked at the door . well ; what did he want ? <SEP> why did peter want a try at befooling the king ? <SEP> it would be a fine thing to have a princess in the family . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
oh ! he would only like to have a try at befooling the king . very good ; he should have his try . he was not the first one who had been there that morning , early as it was . so peter was shown in to the king . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder are three black geese out in the court - yard " but no , the king was not to be fooled so easily as all that . " one goose is enough to look at at a time , " said he ; " take him away and give him a whipping ! " and so they did , and peter went home bleating like a sheep . one day paul spoke up . " i should like to go and have a try for the princess , too , " said he . well , his father did not say no , for , after all , paul was the more clever of the two . so off paul went as merrily as a duck in the rain . by and by he came to the castle , and then he too was brought before the king just as peter had been . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder is a crow sitting in the tree with three white stripes on his back ! " <SEP> why was peter given a whipping ? <SEP> because he did not fool the king . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
oh ! he would only like to have a try at befooling the king . very good ; he should have his try . he was not the first one who had been there that morning , early as it was . so peter was shown in to the king . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder are three black geese out in the court - yard " but no , the king was not to be fooled so easily as all that . " one goose is enough to look at at a time , " said he ; " take him away and give him a whipping ! " and so they did , and peter went home bleating like a sheep . one day paul spoke up . " i should like to go and have a try for the princess , too , " said he . well , his father did not say no , for , after all , paul was the more clever of the two . so off paul went as merrily as a duck in the rain . by and by he came to the castle , and then he too was brought before the king just as peter had been . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder is a crow sitting in the tree with three white stripes on his back ! " <SEP> who decided to try to befool the king after peter ? <SEP> paul . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
oh ! he would only like to have a try at befooling the king . very good ; he should have his try . he was not the first one who had been there that morning , early as it was . so peter was shown in to the king . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder are three black geese out in the court - yard " but no , the king was not to be fooled so easily as all that . " one goose is enough to look at at a time , " said he ; " take him away and give him a whipping ! " and so they did , and peter went home bleating like a sheep . one day paul spoke up . " i should like to go and have a try for the princess , too , " said he . well , his father did not say no , for , after all , paul was the more clever of the two . so off paul went as merrily as a duck in the rain . by and by he came to the castle , and then he too was brought before the king just as peter had been . " oh , look ! " said he , " yonder is a crow sitting in the tree with three white stripes on his back ! " but the king was not so silly as to be fooled in that way . " here is a jack , " said he , " who will soon have more stripes on his back than he will like . take him away and give him his whipping ! " then it was done as the king had said , and paul went away home bawling like a calf . one day up spoke boots . " i should like to go and have a try for the pretty princess , too , " said he . at this they all stared and sniggered . what ! he go where his clever brothers had failed , and had nothing to show for the trying but a good beating ? what had come over the lout ! here was a pretty business , to be sure ! that was what they all said . but all of this rolled away from boots like water from a duck 's back . no matter , he would like to go and have a try like the others . so he begged and begged until his father was glad to let him go to be rid of his teasing , if nothing else . then boots asked if he might have the old tattered hat that hung back of the chimney .  <SEP> what did paul say was sitting in the tree ? <SEP> a crow . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
but the king was not so silly as to be fooled in that way . " here is a jack , " said he , " who will soon have more stripes on his back than he will like . take him away and give him his whipping ! " then it was done as the king had said , and paul went away home bawling like a calf . one day up spoke boots . " i should like to go and have a try for the pretty princess , too , " said he . at this they all stared and sniggered . what ! he go where his clever brothers had failed , and had nothing to show for the trying but a good beating ? what had come over the lout ! here was a pretty business , to be sure ! that was what they all said . but all of this rolled away from boots like water from a duck 's back . no matter , he would like to go and have a try like the others . so he begged and begged until his father was glad to let him go to be rid of his teasing , if nothing else . then boots asked if he might have the old tattered hat that hung back of the chimney . <SEP> why did his father let boots go to the king ? <SEP> he was annoyed by boots ' begging . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
but the king was not so silly as to be fooled in that way . " here is a jack , " said he , " who will soon have more stripes on his back than he will like . take him away and give him his whipping ! " then it was done as the king had said , and paul went away home bawling like a calf . one day up spoke boots . " i should like to go and have a try for the pretty princess , too , " said he . at this they all stared and sniggered . what ! he go where his clever brothers had failed , and had nothing to show for the trying but a good beating ? what had come over the lout ! here was a pretty business , to be sure ! that was what they all said . but all of this rolled away from boots like water from a duck 's back . no matter , he would like to go and have a try like the others . so he begged and begged until his father was glad to let him go to be rid of his teasing , if nothing else . then boots asked if he might have the old tattered hat that hung back of the chimney . <SEP> what did boots ask to have ? <SEP> the old tattered hat that hung back of the chimney . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
oh , yes , he might have that if he wanted it , for nobody with good wits was likely to wear such a thing . so boots took the hat , and after he had brushed the ashes from his shoes set off for the town , whistling as he went . the first body whom he met was an old woman with a great load of earthenware pots and crocks on her shoulders . " good - day , mother , " said boots . " good - day , son , " said she . " what will you take for all of your pots and crocks ? " said boots . " three shillings , " said she . " i will give you five shillings if you will come and stand in front of the king 's house , and do thus and so when i say this and that , " said boots . oh , yes ! she would do that willingly enough . so boots and the old woman went on together , and presently came to the king 's house . when they had come there , boots sat down in front of the door and began bawling as loud as he could-"no , i will not ! i will not do it , i say ! no , i will not do it ! " <SEP> who was the first person boots met on his way to the king ? <SEP> an old woman . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
oh , yes , he might have that if he wanted it , for nobody with good wits was likely to wear such a thing . so boots took the hat , and after he had brushed the ashes from his shoes set off for the town , whistling as he went . the first body whom he met was an old woman with a great load of earthenware pots and crocks on her shoulders . " good - day , mother , " said boots . " good - day , son , " said she . " what will you take for all of your pots and crocks ? " said boots . " three shillings , " said she . " i will give you five shillings if you will come and stand in front of the king 's house , and do thus and so when i say this and that , " said boots . oh , yes ! she would do that willingly enough . so boots and the old woman went on together , and presently came to the king 's house . when they had come there , boots sat down in front of the door and began bawling as loud as he could-"no , i will not ! i will not do it , i say ! no , i will not do it ! " <SEP> where did boots and the old woman go togethe ? <SEP> the king 's house . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
so he kept on , bawling louder and louder until he made such a noise that , at last , the king himself came out to see what all of the hubbub was about . but when boots saw him he only bawled out louder than ever , " no , i will not ! i will not do it , i say ! " " stop ! stop ! " cried the king , " what is all this about ? " " why , " said boots , " everybody wants to buy my cap , but i will not sell it ! i will not do it , i say ! " " but , why should anybody want to buy such a cap as that ? " said the king . " because , " said boots , " it is a fooling cap and the only one in all of the world . " " a fooling cap ! " said the king . for he did not like to hear of such a cap as that coming into the town . " hum - m - m - m ! i should like to see you fool somebody with it . could you fool that old body yonder with the pots and the crocks ? " <SEP> what did boots call his cap ? <SEP> a fooling cap . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
so he kept on , bawling louder and louder until he made such a noise that , at last , the king himself came out to see what all of the hubbub was about . but when boots saw him he only bawled out louder than ever , " no , i will not ! i will not do it , i say ! " " stop ! stop ! " cried the king , " what is all this about ? " " why , " said boots , " everybody wants to buy my cap , but i will not sell it ! i will not do it , i say ! " " but , why should anybody want to buy such a cap as that ? " said the king . " because , " said boots , " it is a fooling cap and the only one in all of the world . " " a fooling cap ! " said the king . for he did not like to hear of such a cap as that coming into the town . " hum - m - m - m ! i should like to see you fool somebody with it . could you fool that old body yonder with the pots and the crocks ? " <SEP> who did the king ask boots to fool ? <SEP> that old body yonder with the pots and the crocks . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
" oh , yes ! that is easily enough done , " said boots , and without more ado he took off his tattered cap and blew into it . then he put it on his head again and bawled out , " break pots ! break pots ! " no sooner had he spoken these words than the old woman jumped up and began breaking and smashing her pots and crocks as though she had gone crazy . that was what boots had paid her five shillings for doing , but of it the king knew nothing . " hui ! " said he to himself , " i must buy that hat from the fellow or he will fool the princess away from me for sure and certain . " then he began talking to boots as sweetly as though he had honey in his mouth . perhaps boots would sell the hat to him ? oh , no ! boots could not think of such a thing as selling his fooling cap . come , come ; the king wanted that hat , and sooner than miss buying it he would give a whole bag of gold money for it . <SEP> what happened when boots yelled out "break pots, break pots" ? <SEP> the old woman started breaking her pots . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> implicit
" oh , yes ! that is easily enough done , " said boots , and without more ado he took off his tattered cap and blew into it . then he put it on his head again and bawled out , " break pots ! break pots ! " no sooner had he spoken these words than the old woman jumped up and began breaking and smashing her pots and crocks as though she had gone crazy . that was what boots had paid her five shillings for doing , but of it the king knew nothing . " hui ! " said he to himself , " i must buy that hat from the fellow or he will fool the princess away from me for sure and certain . " then he began talking to boots as sweetly as though he had honey in his mouth . perhaps boots would sell the hat to him ? oh , no ! boots could not think of such a thing as selling his fooling cap . come , come ; the king wanted that hat , and sooner than miss buying it he would give a whole bag of gold money for it . <SEP> what did the king offer in exchange for the hat ? <SEP> a whole bag of gold money . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
at this boots looked up and looked down , scratching his head . well , he supposed he would have to sell the hat some time , and the king might as well have it as anybody else . but for all that he did not like parting with it . so the king gave boots the bag of gold , and boots gave the king the old tattered hat , and then he went his way . after boots had gone the king blew into the hat and blew into the hat , but though he blew enough breath into it to sail a big ship , he did not befool so much as a single titmouse . then , at last , he began to see that the fooling cap was good on nobody else 's head but boots 's ; and he was none too pleased at that , you may be sure . as for boots , with his bag of gold he bought the finest clothes that were to be had in the town , and when the next morning had come he started away bright and early for the king 's house . " i have come , " said he , " to marry the princess , if you please . " <SEP> what happened when the king blew into the hat ? <SEP> he did not befool so much as a single titmouse . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
at this boots looked up and looked down , scratching his head . well , he supposed he would have to sell the hat some time , and the king might as well have it as anybody else . but for all that he did not like parting with it . so the king gave boots the bag of gold , and boots gave the king the old tattered hat , and then he went his way . after boots had gone the king blew into the hat and blew into the hat , but though he blew enough breath into it to sail a big ship , he did not befool so much as a single titmouse . then , at last , he began to see that the fooling cap was good on nobody else 's head but boots 's ; and he was none too pleased at that , you may be sure . as for boots , with his bag of gold he bought the finest clothes that were to be had in the town , and when the next morning had come he started away bright and early for the king 's house . " i have come , " said he , " to marry the princess , if you please . " <SEP> what did boots buy with the bag of gold ? <SEP> the finest clothes that were to be had in the town . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
at this the king hemmed and hawed and scratched his head . yes ; boots had befooled him sure enough , but , after all , he could not give up the princess for such a thing as that . still , he would give boots another chance . now , there was the high - councillor , who was the wisest man in all of the world . did boots think that he could fool him also ? oh , yes ! boots thought that it might be done . very well ; if he could befool the high - councillor so as to bring him to the castle the next morning against his will , boots should have the princess and the half of the kingdom ; if he did not do so he should have his beating . then boots went away , and the king thought that he was rid of him now for good and all . as for the high - councillor , he was not pleased with the matter at all , for he did not like the thought of being fooled by a clever rogue , and taken here and there against his will . so when he had come home , he armed all of his servants with blunderbusses , and then waited to give boots a welcome when he should come . <SEP> who did the king ask boots to fool ? <SEP> the high - councillor . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
but boots was not going to fall into any such trap as that ! no indeed ! not he ! the next morning he went quietly and bought a fine large meal - sack . then he put a black wig over his beautiful red hair , so that no one might know him . after that he went to the place where the high - councillor lived , and when he had come there he crawled inside of the sack , and lay just beside the door of the house . by and by came one of the maid servants to the door , and there lay the great meal - sack with somebody in it . " ach ! " cried she , " who is there ? " but boots only said , " sh - h - h - h - h ! " then the serving maid went back into the house , and told the high - councillor that one lay outside in a great meal - sack , and that all that he said was , " sh - h - h - h - h ! " so the councillor went himself to see what it was all about . " what do you want here ? " said he . " sh - h - h - h - h ! " said boots , " i am not to be talked to now . this is a wisdom - sack , and i am learning wisdom as fast as a drake can eat peas . " <SEP> what did boots put over his read hair ? <SEP> a black wig . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" and what wisdom have you learned ? " said the councillor . oh ! boots had learned wisdom about everything in the world . he had learned that the clever scamp who had fooled the king yesterday was coming with seventeen tall men to take the high - councillor , willy - nilly , to the castle that morning . when the high - councillor heard this he fell to trembling till his teeth rattled in his head . " and have you learned how i can get the better of this clever scamp ? " said he . oh , yes ! boots had learned that easily enough . so , good ! then if the wise man in the sack would tell the high - councillor how to escape the clever rogue , the high - councillor would give the wise man twenty dollars . but no , that was not to be done ; wisdom was not bought so cheaply as the high - councillor seemed to think . well , the councillor would give him a hundred dollars then . that was good ! a hundred dollars were a hundred dollars . if the councillor would give him that much he might get into the sack himself , and then he could learn all the wisdom that he wanted , and more besides . <SEP> how much money does the councillor offer the wise man in the end ? <SEP> a hundred dollars . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
so boots crawled out of the sack , and the councillor paid his hundred dollars and crawled in . as soon as he was in all snug and safe , boots drew the mouth of the sack together and tied it tightly . then he flung sack , councillor , and all over his shoulder , and started away to the king 's house , and anybody who met them could see with half an eye that the councillor was going against his will . when boots came to the king 's castle he laid the councillor down in the goose - house , and then he went to the king . when the king saw boots again , he bit his lips with vexation . " well , " said he , " have you fooled the councillor ? " " oh , yes ! " says boots , " i have done that . " and where was the councillor now ? oh , boots had just left him down in the goose - house . he was tied up safe and sound in a sack , waiting till the king should send for him . so the councillor was sent for , and when he came the king saw at once that he had been brought against his will . " and now may i marry the princess ? " said boots . <SEP> what happened when the councillor crawled into the sack ? <SEP> boots closed the sack and started walking toward the king 's house . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> implicit
but the king was not willing for him to marry the princess yet ; no ! no ! boots must not go so fast . there was more to be done yet . if he would come to - morrow morning he might have the princess and welcome , but he would have to pick her out from among fourscore other maids just like her ; did he think that he could do that ? oh , yes ! boots thought that that might be easy enough to do . so , good ! then come to - morrow ; but he must understand that if he failed he should have a good whipping , and be sent packing from the town . so off went boots , and the king thought that he was rid of him now , for he had never seen the princess , and how could he pick her out from among eighty others ? but boots was not going to give up so easily as all that ! no , not he ! he made a little box , and then he hunted up and down until he had caught a live mouse to put into it . when the next morning came he started away to the king 's house , taking his mouse along with him in the box . <SEP> what did boots bring with him to the king's house the next morning ? <SEP> his mouse in his box . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
there was the king , standing in the doorway , looking out into the street . when he saw boots coming towards him he made a wry face . " what ! " said he , " are you back again ? " oh , yes ! boots was back again . and now if the princess was ready he would like to go and find her , for lost time was not to be gathered again like fallen apples . so off they marched to a great room , and there stood eighty - and - one maidens , all as much alike as peas in the same dish . boots looked here and there , but , even if he had known the princess , he could not have told her from the others . but he was ready for all that . before any one knew what he was about , he opened the box , and out ran the little mouse among them all . then what a screaming , and a hubbub there was ! many looked as though they would have liked to swoon , but only one of them did so . as soon as the others saw what had happened , they forgot all about the mouse , and ran to her and fell to fanning her and slapping her hands and chafing her temples . <SEP> how many maidens stoof in the great room ? <SEP> eighty - one . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
there was the king , standing in the doorway , looking out into the street . when he saw boots coming towards him he made a wry face . " what ! " said he , " are you back again ? " oh , yes ! boots was back again . and now if the princess was ready he would like to go and find her , for lost time was not to be gathered again like fallen apples . so off they marched to a great room , and there stood eighty - and - one maidens , all as much alike as peas in the same dish . boots looked here and there , but , even if he had known the princess , he could not have told her from the others . but he was ready for all that . before any one knew what he was about , he opened the box , and out ran the little mouse among them all . then what a screaming , and a hubbub there was ! many looked as though they would have liked to swoon , but only one of them did so . as soon as the others saw what had happened , they forgot all about the mouse , and ran to her and fell to fanning her and slapping her hands and chafing her temples . <SEP> why was there screaming and hubbub ? <SEP> because boots released a mouse into the room . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
" this is the princess , " said boots . and so it was . after that the king could think of nothing more to set boots to do , so he let him marry the princess as he had promised , and have half of the kingdom to boot . that is all of this story . only this : it is not always the silliest one that sits kicking his feet in the ashes at home . <SEP> why did the king let boots marry the princess ? <SEP> the king could think of nothing more to set boots to do . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> what type of person was the woman's son ? <SEP> lazy and slow . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> what happened because the son was so lazy and slow ? <SEP> there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> how did the woman feel about her son singing and dancing ? <SEP> unhappy . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> what happened to the son's clothes when he skipped and danced ? <SEP> ripped . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> implicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> why did the son want to marry the daughter of the mother in the corner ? <SEP> he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
when the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all . she dressed up the youth as well as she could , so that he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner , and then he set forth . when he stepped out the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the ground was soft and full of water puddles . the youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced , as he always did . but suddenly , as he was hopping and skipping along , he came to a swamp , and there were only some logs laid down to cross it . from the one log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop ! the very moment he set foot on the clump of grass , he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing at all , but when he had been there a little while , he saw that there was a rat , who was wiggling and waggling around , and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> why did the mother dress the youth as well as she could ? <SEP> he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . when the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all . she dressed up the youth as well as she could , so that he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner , and then he set forth . when he stepped out the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the ground was soft and full of water puddles . the youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced , as he always did . but suddenly , as he was hopping and skipping along , he came to a swamp , and there were only some logs laid down to cross it . from the one log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop ! the very moment he set foot on the clump of grass , he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing at all , but when he had been there a little while , he saw that there was a rat , who was wiggling and waggling around , and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail .  <SEP> why did the mother think the youth's idea was not a bad idea ? <SEP> she could not afford to care for him anymore . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
when the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all . she dressed up the youth as well as she could , so that he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner , and then he set forth . when he stepped out the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the ground was soft and full of water puddles . the youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced , as he always did . but suddenly , as he was hopping and skipping along , he came to a swamp , and there were only some logs laid down to cross it . from the one log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop ! the very moment he set foot on the clump of grass , he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing at all , but when he had been there a little while , he saw that there was a rat , who was wiggling and waggling around , and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> what did the youth do as he made his way to the mother in the corner ? <SEP> sang and danced . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
when the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all . she dressed up the youth as well as she could , so that he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner , and then he set forth . when he stepped out the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the ground was soft and full of water puddles . the youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced , as he always did . but suddenly , as he was hopping and skipping along , he came to a swamp , and there were only some logs laid down to cross it . from the one log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop ! the very moment he set foot on the clump of grass , he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing at all , but when he had been there a little while , he saw that there was a rat , who was wiggling and waggling around , and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> what happened when the youth set foot on the clump of grass ? <SEP> he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
when the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all . she dressed up the youth as well as she could , so that he would make a good showing when he came to the mother in the corner , and then he set forth . when he stepped out the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the ground was soft and full of water puddles . the youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced , as he always did . but suddenly , as he was hopping and skipping along , he came to a swamp , and there were only some logs laid down to cross it . from the one log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop ! the very moment he set foot on the clump of grass , he went down and down until he was standing in a dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing at all , but when he had been there a little while , he saw that there was a rat , who was wiggling and waggling around , and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> what was the rat doing when the youth saw her ? <SEP> wiggling and waggling around and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " i must thank you for coming to visit me : i have been expecting you for a long time . i am sure you have come to win me , and i can well imagine that you are in a great hurry . but you must have a little patience . i am to receive a large dower , and am not yet ready for the wedding . i will do my best to see that we are married soon . " when she had said this , she produced a couple of egg - shells , with all sorts of eatables such as rats eat . she set them down before the youth , and said : " now you must sit down and help yourself , for i am sure you are tired and hungry . " <SEP> what did the rat think the youth was doing there ? <SEP> to win her . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " i must thank you for coming to visit me : i have been expecting you for a long time . i am sure you have come to win me , and i can well imagine that you are in a great hurry . but you must have a little patience . i am to receive a large dower , and am not yet ready for the wedding . i will do my best to see that we are married soon . " when she had said this , she produced a couple of egg - shells , with all sorts of eatables such as rats eat . she set them down before the youth , and said : " now you must sit down and help yourself , for i am sure you are tired and hungry . " <SEP> why did the rat ask the youth to be patient ? <SEP> she was to receive a larger dower and was not yet ready for the wedding . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " i must thank you for coming to visit me : i have been expecting you for a long time . i am sure you have come to win me , and i can well imagine that you are in a great hurry . but you must have a little patience . i am to receive a large dower , and am not yet ready for the wedding . i will do my best to see that we are married soon . " when she had said this , she produced a couple of egg - shells , with all sorts of eatables such as rats eat . she set them down before the youth , and said : " now you must sit down and help yourself , for i am sure you are tired and hungry . " <SEP> what did the rat tell the youth to do while he waited ? <SEP> sit down and help himself . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " i must thank you for coming to visit me : i have been expecting you for a long time . i am sure you have come to win me , and i can well imagine that you are in a great hurry . but you must have a little patience . i am to receive a large dower , and am not yet ready for the wedding . i will do my best to see that we are married soon . " when she had said this , she produced a couple of egg - shells , with all sorts of eatables such as rats eat . she set them down before the youth , and said : " now you must sit down and help yourself , for i am sure you are tired and hungry . " <SEP> how will the youth feel about the food provided by the rat ? <SEP> unsure . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " i must thank you for coming to visit me : i have been expecting you for a long time . i am sure you have come to win me , and i can well imagine that you are in a great hurry . but you must have a little patience . i am to receive a large dower , and am not yet ready for the wedding . i will do my best to see that we are married soon . " when she had said this , she produced a couple of egg - shells , with all sorts of eatables such as rats eat . she set them down before the youth , and said : " now you must sit down and help yourself , for i am sure you are tired and hungry . " the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! "  <SEP> why did the youth have no great appetite for the food ? <SEP> it was rat food . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " <SEP> why did the rat give the youth the linen thread ? <SEP> so he could go home . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " <SEP> how did the youth feel when the rat allowed him to go above ? <SEP> excited . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " <SEP> what did the rat tell the youth to repeat ? <SEP> short before and long behind ' . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " <SEP> why was the youth in no hurry to go down the hole again ? <SEP> he did not like being down there . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . <SEP> how did the mother feel when she saw the linen ? <SEP> disbelief . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . <SEP> why was the mother so pleased with the linen ? <SEP> she could use it to make clothes . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . <SEP> what happened after the woman had not a bite to eat in the house ? <SEP> she told her son that it was the highest time of him to take service . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . <SEP> why were the mother and son able to live in joy and comfort ? <SEP> they had plenty of clothes to wear . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
once upon a time there was a woman who had a son . he was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do . but he liked to sing and to dance , and that is what he did all day long , and far into the night as well . the longer this went on , the worse off his mother was . the youth was growing , and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it . more and more went for his clothes the older he grew , since his clothes did not last long , as you may imagine , because the youth skipped and dance about without stopping , through forest and field . at length it was too much for his mother . one day she told the young fellow that he ought at last to get to work , and really do something , or both of them would have to starve to death . but the youth had no mind to do so , he said , and would rather try to win the daughter of the mother in the corner . if he got her , then he would live happily ever after , and could sing and dance , and would not have to plague himself with work . when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death .  <SEP> what will the youth want to do instead of taking service ? <SEP> go to the mother in the corner . <SEP> prediction <SEP> explicit
but the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner , and try to win her daughter . his mother did not think this such a bad idea , for now the youth was handsomely dressed , and made a good showing . so she brushed him , and furbished him up as well as she could . he himself took a pair of new shoes , and polished them till they shone like a mirror , and when he had done so , off he went . everything happened as before . when he stepped out , the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the road was soft and muddy , and every puddle was full of water . the youth took the shortest way to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced and danced and sang , as he always did . he followed another road , not the one he had taken before ; but as he was hopping and skipping along , he suddenly came to the log across the swamp , and from the log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop . and he sank down and could not stop , until he reached a horrible , dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing ; but after he had stood there a while , he discovered a rat with a bunch of keys at the end of her tail , which she was wiggling and waggling in front of him . <SEP> why did the mother think it would be a good idea for the youth to go to the mother in the corner ? <SEP> the youth was handsomely dressed and made a good showing . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
but the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner , and try to win her daughter . his mother did not think this such a bad idea , for now the youth was handsomely dressed , and made a good showing . so she brushed him , and furbished him up as well as she could . he himself took a pair of new shoes , and polished them till they shone like a mirror , and when he had done so , off he went . everything happened as before . when he stepped out , the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the road was soft and muddy , and every puddle was full of water . the youth took the shortest way to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced and danced and sang , as he always did . he followed another road , not the one he had taken before ; but as he was hopping and skipping along , he suddenly came to the log across the swamp , and from the log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop . and he sank down and could not stop , until he reached a horrible , dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing ; but after he had stood there a while , he discovered a rat with a bunch of keys at the end of her tail , which she was wiggling and waggling in front of him . <SEP> what was sun doing when the youth stepped out ? <SEP> shining bright and warm . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
but the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner , and try to win her daughter . his mother did not think this such a bad idea , for now the youth was handsomely dressed , and made a good showing . so she brushed him , and furbished him up as well as she could . he himself took a pair of new shoes , and polished them till they shone like a mirror , and when he had done so , off he went . everything happened as before . when he stepped out , the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the road was soft and muddy , and every puddle was full of water . the youth took the shortest way to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced and danced and sang , as he always did . he followed another road , not the one he had taken before ; but as he was hopping and skipping along , he suddenly came to the log across the swamp , and from the log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop . and he sank down and could not stop , until he reached a horrible , dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing ; but after he had stood there a while , he discovered a rat with a bunch of keys at the end of her tail , which she was wiggling and waggling in front of him . <SEP> what did the youth come to as he was hopping and skipping along ? <SEP> the log across the swamp . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
but the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner , and try to win her daughter . his mother did not think this such a bad idea , for now the youth was handsomely dressed , and made a good showing . so she brushed him , and furbished him up as well as she could . he himself took a pair of new shoes , and polished them till they shone like a mirror , and when he had done so , off he went . everything happened as before . when he stepped out , the sun was shining bright and warm . it had rained during the night , and the road was soft and muddy , and every puddle was full of water . the youth took the shortest way to the mother in the corner , and sang and danced and danced and sang , as he always did . he followed another road , not the one he had taken before ; but as he was hopping and skipping along , he suddenly came to the log across the swamp , and from the log he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his shoes . and then he went kerflop . and he sank down and could not stop , until he reached a horrible , dark , ugly hole . at first he could see nothing ; but after he had stood there a while , he discovered a rat with a bunch of keys at the end of her tail , which she was wiggling and waggling in front of him . <SEP> what did the youth need to do to not dirty his shoes ? <SEP> jump over a puddle to a clump of grass . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " you are welcome among us ! it was kind of you to come and visit me again so soon . no doubt you are very impatient , i can well imagine it . but you must really be patient a little while longer . my trousseau is not quite complete , but by the time you come again all shall be ready . " when she had said this she offered him egg - shells containing all sorts of food such as rats like . but it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten , and he said that he had no appetite . " if i were only safely away , and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . after a time the rat said : " now i think you must surely want to get up above again . i will hurry on the wedding as quickly as i can . and now take this woolen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but go straight home , and underway you must keep on repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid the woolen thread in his hand . <SEP> when would all be ready according to the rat ? <SEP> by the time the youth came again . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " you are welcome among us ! it was kind of you to come and visit me again so soon . no doubt you are very impatient , i can well imagine it . but you must really be patient a little while longer . my trousseau is not quite complete , but by the time you come again all shall be ready . " when she had said this she offered him egg - shells containing all sorts of food such as rats like . but it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten , and he said that he had no appetite . " if i were only safely away , and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . after a time the rat said : " now i think you must surely want to get up above again . i will hurry on the wedding as quickly as i can . and now take this woolen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but go straight home , and underway you must keep on repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid the woolen thread in his hand . <SEP> why did the youth not want to eat the food ? <SEP> it looked like food that had been eaten . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " you are welcome among us ! it was kind of you to come and visit me again so soon . no doubt you are very impatient , i can well imagine it . but you must really be patient a little while longer . my trousseau is not quite complete , but by the time you come again all shall be ready . " when she had said this she offered him egg - shells containing all sorts of food such as rats like . but it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten , and he said that he had no appetite . " if i were only safely away , and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . after a time the rat said : " now i think you must surely want to get up above again . i will hurry on the wedding as quickly as i can . and now take this woolen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but go straight home , and underway you must keep on repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid the woolen thread in his hand . <SEP> what did the rat give the youth to return home ? <SEP> woolen thread . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
the youth had no great appetite for this food . " if i were only away and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . " now i think you must surely want to get home again , " said the rat . " i am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding , and i will hurry all i can . take this linen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but must go straight home , and as you go you must keep repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid a linen thread in his hand . " heaven be praised ! " said the youth when he was up above once more . " i 'll not go down there again in a hurry . " but he held the thread in his hand , and danced and sang as usual . and although he no longer had the rat - hole in mind , he began to hum : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . " have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " you are welcome among us ! it was kind of you to come and visit me again so soon . no doubt you are very impatient , i can well imagine it . but you must really be patient a little while longer . my trousseau is not quite complete , but by the time you come again all shall be ready . " when she had said this she offered him egg - shells containing all sorts of food such as rats like . but it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten , and he said that he had no appetite . " if i were only safely away , and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . after a time the rat said : " now i think you must surely want to get up above again . i will hurry on the wedding as quickly as i can . and now take this woolen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but go straight home , and underway you must keep on repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid the woolen thread in his hand .  <SEP> what will the youth find when he returns home ? <SEP> piles of wool . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
when he stood before the door at home , he turned around ; and there lay many , many hundred yards of the finest linen , finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun . " mother , come out , come out ! " called and cried the youth . his mother came darting out , and asked what was the matter . and when she saw the linen , stretching as far as she could see , and then a bit , she could not believe her eyes , until the youth told her how it all happened . but when she had heard that , and had tested the linen between her fingers , she was so pleased that she , too , began to sing and dance . then she took the linen , cut it , and sewed shirts from it for her son and herself . the remainder she took to town and sold for a good price . then for a time they lived in all joy and comfort . but when that was over the woman had not a bite to eat in the house . she told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service , and really do something , or else both of them would have to starve to death . " thank heaven , i have escaped ! " said the youth to himself . " i am sure i 'll never go there again , " and then he sang and danced again as usual . he thought no more of the rat - hole , but fell to humming , and sang without stopping : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " when he stood at the door of the house , he happened to look around . there lay the finest woolen goods , many hundred yards of it , stretching for half a mile , and so fine that no city counselor wore a coat of finer cloth .  <SEP> what will the youth and his mother do with the wool ? <SEP> make clothes . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
" thank heaven , i have escaped ! " said the youth to himself . " i am sure i 'll never go there again , " and then he sang and danced again as usual . he thought no more of the rat - hole , but fell to humming , and sang without stopping : " short before and long behind ! short before and long behind ! " when he stood at the door of the house , he happened to look around . there lay the finest woolen goods , many hundred yards of it , stretching for half a mile , and so fine that no city counselor wore a coat of finer cloth . <SEP> how did the youth feel to escape ? <SEP> happy . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
" mother , mother , come out , come out ! " cried the youth . his mother came to the door , clasped her hands together over her head , and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods . and then the youth had to tell her how it had come to him , and all that had taken place , from beginning to end . this brought them a small fortune , as you may imagine . the youth had new clothes , and his mother went to town and sold the goods , yard by yard , and was handsomely paid for them . and then she decorated her room , and she herself , in her old days , went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction . so they lived splendidly and happily , but finally this money , too , came to an end . one day the woman had not a bite to eat left in the house , and told her son that now he had better look for work , and really do something , or both of them would starve to death . <SEP> what did the mother do when she came to the door ? <SEP> clasped her hands together over her head , and nearly fainted with joy . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" mother , mother , come out , come out ! " cried the youth . his mother came to the door , clasped her hands together over her head , and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods . and then the youth had to tell her how it had come to him , and all that had taken place , from beginning to end . this brought them a small fortune , as you may imagine . the youth had new clothes , and his mother went to town and sold the goods , yard by yard , and was handsomely paid for them . and then she decorated her room , and she herself , in her old days , went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction . so they lived splendidly and happily , but finally this money , too , came to an end . one day the woman had not a bite to eat left in the house , and told her son that now he had better look for work , and really do something , or both of them would starve to death . <SEP> what was brought to the mother and son because of the wool ? <SEP> a small fortune . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
" mother , mother , come out , come out ! " cried the youth . his mother came to the door , clasped her hands together over her head , and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods . and then the youth had to tell her how it had come to him , and all that had taken place , from beginning to end . this brought them a small fortune , as you may imagine . the youth had new clothes , and his mother went to town and sold the goods , yard by yard , and was handsomely paid for them . and then she decorated her room , and she herself , in her old days , went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction . so they lived splendidly and happily , but finally this money , too , came to an end . one day the woman had not a bite to eat left in the house , and told her son that now he had better look for work , and really do something , or both of them would starve to death . <SEP> what did the mother do with her small fortune ? <SEP> decorated her room . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" mother , mother , come out , come out ! " cried the youth . his mother came to the door , clasped her hands together over her head , and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods . and then the youth had to tell her how it had come to him , and all that had taken place , from beginning to end . this brought them a small fortune , as you may imagine . the youth had new clothes , and his mother went to town and sold the goods , yard by yard , and was handsomely paid for them . and then she decorated her room , and she herself , in her old days , went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction . so they lived splendidly and happily , but finally this money , too , came to an end . one day the woman had not a bite to eat left in the house , and told her son that now he had better look for work , and really do something , or both of them would starve to death . <SEP> what did the mother say would happen if the son did not look for work ? <SEP> both of them would starve to death . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
but the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter . this time his mother again agreed with him , and did not contradict the youth . now he had fine new clothes , and looked so distinguished that it seemed out of the question to her that such a good - looking fellow would be refused . so she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way , and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them , and when he had done so he set forth . this time he did not choose the shortest road . he took a roundabout way , the longest he could find , for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling , and the talk about marriage . the weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before . the sun shone , the swamp and the puddles gleamed , and the youth sang and danced as usual . and in the midst of his skipping and jumping , before he knew it , there he stood at the same crossing which led across the swamp . there he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his brightly polished shoes . " kerflop ! " and down he went , and did not stop until he stood once more in the same dark , ugly , dirty hole . at first he was pleased because he could see nothing . but after he had stood there a while , he once more discovered the ugly rat who was so repulsive to him , with the bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> why did the mother think her son would not be refused ? <SEP> he was such a good - looking fellow . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
but the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter . this time his mother again agreed with him , and did not contradict the youth . now he had fine new clothes , and looked so distinguished that it seemed out of the question to her that such a good - looking fellow would be refused . so she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way , and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them , and when he had done so he set forth . this time he did not choose the shortest road . he took a roundabout way , the longest he could find , for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling , and the talk about marriage . the weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before . the sun shone , the swamp and the puddles gleamed , and the youth sang and danced as usual . and in the midst of his skipping and jumping , before he knew it , there he stood at the same crossing which led across the swamp . there he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his brightly polished shoes . " kerflop ! " and down he went , and did not stop until he stood once more in the same dark , ugly , dirty hole . at first he was pleased because he could see nothing . but after he had stood there a while , he once more discovered the ugly rat who was so repulsive to him , with the bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> what did the youth do differently after setting forth this time compared to the previous times ? <SEP> took a roundabout way , the longest he could fine . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
but the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter . this time his mother again agreed with him , and did not contradict the youth . now he had fine new clothes , and looked so distinguished that it seemed out of the question to her that such a good - looking fellow would be refused . so she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way , and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them , and when he had done so he set forth . this time he did not choose the shortest road . he took a roundabout way , the longest he could find , for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling , and the talk about marriage . the weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before . the sun shone , the swamp and the puddles gleamed , and the youth sang and danced as usual . and in the midst of his skipping and jumping , before he knew it , there he stood at the same crossing which led across the swamp . there he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his brightly polished shoes . " kerflop ! " and down he went , and did not stop until he stood once more in the same dark , ugly , dirty hole . at first he was pleased because he could see nothing . but after he had stood there a while , he once more discovered the ugly rat who was so repulsive to him , with the bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> why did the youth choose the longest way ? <SEP> he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling and the talk about marriage . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
but the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter . this time his mother again agreed with him , and did not contradict the youth . now he had fine new clothes , and looked so distinguished that it seemed out of the question to her that such a good - looking fellow would be refused . so she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way , and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them , and when he had done so he set forth . this time he did not choose the shortest road . he took a roundabout way , the longest he could find , for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling , and the talk about marriage . the weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before . the sun shone , the swamp and the puddles gleamed , and the youth sang and danced as usual . and in the midst of his skipping and jumping , before he knew it , there he stood at the same crossing which led across the swamp . there he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his brightly polished shoes . " kerflop ! " and down he went , and did not stop until he stood once more in the same dark , ugly , dirty hole . at first he was pleased because he could see nothing . but after he had stood there a while , he once more discovered the ugly rat who was so repulsive to him , with the bunch of keys hanging from her tail . <SEP> how did the youth feel to see the rat again ? <SEP> upset . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
" have you come , my boy ? " said the rat . " you are welcome among us ! it was kind of you to come and visit me again so soon . no doubt you are very impatient , i can well imagine it . but you must really be patient a little while longer . my trousseau is not quite complete , but by the time you come again all shall be ready . " when she had said this she offered him egg - shells containing all sorts of food such as rats like . but it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten , and he said that he had no appetite . " if i were only safely away , and up above again , " thought he , but he said nothing . after a time the rat said : " now i think you must surely want to get up above again . i will hurry on the wedding as quickly as i can . and now take this woolen thread along , and when you get up above , you must not turn around , but go straight home , and underway you must keep on repeating : ' short before and long behind ! ' " and with that she laid the woolen thread in his hand . but the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter . this time his mother again agreed with him , and did not contradict the youth . now he had fine new clothes , and looked so distinguished that it seemed out of the question to her that such a good - looking fellow would be refused . so she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way , and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them , and when he had done so he set forth . this time he did not choose the shortest road . he took a roundabout way , the longest he could find , for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling , and the talk about marriage . the weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before . the sun shone , the swamp and the puddles gleamed , and the youth sang and danced as usual . and in the midst of his skipping and jumping , before he knew it , there he stood at the same crossing which led across the swamp . there he had to jump over a puddle to a clump of grass , unless he wanted to dirty his brightly polished shoes . " kerflop ! " and down he went , and did not stop until he stood once more in the same dark , ugly , dirty hole . at first he was pleased because he could see nothing . but after he had stood there a while , he once more discovered the ugly rat who was so repulsive to him , with the bunch of keys hanging from her tail .  <SEP> what will happen now that the youth has returned again ? <SEP> the wedding . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " <SEP> what happened after the rat whistled ? <SEP> every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " <SEP> why did the youth need to walk beside the coach ? <SEP> the road was a little narrow there . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " <SEP> what did the youth plan to do once they were safely above ? <SEP> run away from the whole pack of them . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " <SEP> who sprang up in front to drive the coach ? <SEP> two rats . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " <SEP> what did the youth hear once after walking in advance ? <SEP> a clear , beautiful voice . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . " <SEP> how did the youth feel when he saw the maiden ? <SEP> astonished . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . " <SEP> what made the princess and her playmates turn to rats ? <SEP> they had all been enchanted together . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . " <SEP> how were the princess and her playmates delivered ? <SEP> the youth had come down to them and never contradicted . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" good - day , my boy , " said the rat . " you are welcome ! i see that you can no longer live without me , and i thank you . and now everything is in readiness for our wedding , and we will go straight to church . " nothing will come of that , thought the youth , but he did not say a word . then the rat whistled , and at once every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats , and six large rats came dragging along a frying - pan . two mice sat up behind as grooms , and two sprang up in front to drive the coach . several seated themselves within , and the rat with the bunch of keys took her place in their midst . to the youth she said : " the road is a little narrow here , so you will have to walk beside the coach , sweetheart , until the road is broader . and then you may sit beside me in the coach . " " how fine that will be ! " thought the youth . " if i were only safely up above once more , i would run away from the whole pack of them , " thought he , but he said nothing . he went along with the procession as well as he could . at times he had to crawl , at others he had to stoop , for the way was very narrow . but when it grew better , he walked in advance , and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off . and then he suddenly heard a clear , beautiful voice behind him say : " now the road is good ! come , sweetheart , and get into the coach ! " the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . "  <SEP> what had the six large rats turned into ? <SEP> six white horses . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
the youth turned around quickly , and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off . there stood a magnificent coach with six white horses , and in the coach sat a maiden as fair and beautiful as the sun , and about her were sitting others , as bright and kindly as the stars . it was a princess and her playmates , who had all been enchanted together . but now they were delivered , because he had come down to them , and had never contradicted . " come along now ! " said the princess . then the youth got into the coach , and drove to church with her . and when they drove away from the church , the princess said : " now we will first drive to my home , and then we will send for your mother . " <SEP> what did the maiden look like ? <SEP> fair and beautiful as the sun . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
" that 's all very fine , " thought the youth -- he said nothing , but he thought it would be better , after all , to drive to his home , instead of down into the hideous rat - hole . but suddenly they came to a beautiful castle , and there they turned in , for there it was they were to live . and at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth 's mother , and when she came the wedding festivities began . they celebrated for fourteen days , and perhaps they are celebrating yet . we must hurry , and perhaps we may still get there in time , and can drink the groom 's health and dance with the bride ! <SEP> where did the youth think the princess had lived ? <SEP> a hideous rat - hole . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
" that 's all very fine , " thought the youth -- he said nothing , but he thought it would be better , after all , to drive to his home , instead of down into the hideous rat - hole . but suddenly they came to a beautiful castle , and there they turned in , for there it was they were to live . and at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth 's mother , and when she came the wedding festivities began . they celebrated for fourteen days , and perhaps they are celebrating yet . we must hurry , and perhaps we may still get there in time , and can drink the groom 's health and dance with the bride ! <SEP> where did the princess actually live ? <SEP> a beautiful castle . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
" that 's all very fine , " thought the youth -- he said nothing , but he thought it would be better , after all , to drive to his home , instead of down into the hideous rat - hole . but suddenly they came to a beautiful castle , and there they turned in , for there it was they were to live . and at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth 's mother , and when she came the wedding festivities began . they celebrated for fourteen days , and perhaps they are celebrating yet . we must hurry , and perhaps we may still get there in time , and can drink the groom 's health and dance with the bride ! <SEP> when did the wedding festivities begin ? <SEP> when the youth 's mother came . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
" that 's all very fine , " thought the youth -- he said nothing , but he thought it would be better , after all , to drive to his home , instead of down into the hideous rat - hole . but suddenly they came to a beautiful castle , and there they turned in , for there it was they were to live . and at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth 's mother , and when she came the wedding festivities began . they celebrated for fourteen days , and perhaps they are celebrating yet . we must hurry , and perhaps we may still get there in time , and can drink the groom 's health and dance with the bride ! <SEP> how did the youth feel when he saw the beautiful castle ? <SEP> shocked . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig . after he had gone a while , he met a man who asked him where he was going with his pig . " i want to sell it , " answered the peasant , " but i do not know what to do to get rid of it . " " go to the devil , " said the man , " he will be the first to rid you of it . " so the peasant kept on along the broad highway . <SEP> what did the peasant want to do ? <SEP> sell a pig . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig . after he had gone a while , he met a man who asked him where he was going with his pig . " i want to sell it , " answered the peasant , " but i do not know what to do to get rid of it . " " go to the devil , " said the man , " he will be the first to rid you of it . " so the peasant kept on along the broad highway . <SEP> who did the man say to take the pig to ? <SEP> the devil . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig . after he had gone a while , he met a man who asked him where he was going with his pig . " i want to sell it , " answered the peasant , " but i do not know what to do to get rid of it . " " go to the devil , " said the man , " he will be the first to rid you of it . " so the peasant kept on along the broad highway . <SEP> where did the peasant keep on ? <SEP> the broad highway . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
when he came to the devil 's place , there stood a man out by the wood - pile making wood . the peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil 's place . " i 'll go in and ask , " said the man , " if you will make wood in my stead while i am gone . " " yes , i will do that gladly , " said the peasant , took the ax , stood at the wood - pile and began to make wood . and he worked and worked until evening came ; but the man did not return to tell him whether they would or would not buy a pig in the devil 's place . <SEP> what was the man standing outside the devil's place doing ? <SEP> making wood . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
when he came to the devil 's place , there stood a man out by the wood - pile making wood . the peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil 's place . " i 'll go in and ask , " said the man , " if you will make wood in my stead while i am gone . " " yes , i will do that gladly , " said the peasant , took the ax , stood at the wood - pile and began to make wood . and he worked and worked until evening came ; but the man did not return to tell him whether they would or would not buy a pig in the devil 's place . <SEP> what did the peasant gladly agree to do ? <SEP> make wood in the man 's stead while he was gone . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
at length another man came that way , and the peasant asked him whether he would make wood in his stead , for it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working . so the man took the ax and stood there making wood , and the peasant went into the devil 's place himself , and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig . <SEP> why did the peasant ask the man to make wood in his stead ? <SEP> it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
at length another man came that way , and the peasant asked him whether he would make wood in his stead , for it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working . so the man took the ax and stood there making wood , and the peasant went into the devil 's place himself , and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig . <SEP> what did the peasant do after the man took the ax ? <SEP> went into the devil 's place himself , and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
a crowd as large as that at a fair at once gathered , and all wanted to buy the pig . then the peasant thought : " whoever pays the most , gets it . " and one would overbid another , offering far more than a whole herd of pigs were worth . but at last a gentleman came along who whispered something to the peasant , and told him to come along with him ; and he could have all the money he wanted . <SEP> why did a crowd gather ? <SEP> all wanted to buy the pig . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
a crowd as large as that at a fair at once gathered , and all wanted to buy the pig . then the peasant thought : " whoever pays the most , gets it . " and one would overbid another , offering far more than a whole herd of pigs were worth . but at last a gentleman came along who whispered something to the peasant , and told him to come along with him ; and he could have all the money he wanted . <SEP> who came along and whispered something to the peasant ? <SEP> a gentleman . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . <SEP> what did the peasant receive as payment for the pig ? <SEP> a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . <SEP> how did the peasant feel about his bargain ? <SEP> content . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . <SEP> where did the peasant stay overnight ? <SEP> a tavern . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . <SEP> what happened because the peasant boasted to the old woman about his rooster ? <SEP> the old woman came and took away his rooster . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . <SEP> how will the peasant feel when he discovers his rooster did not lay silver coins ? <SEP> angry . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
" lay quickly , rooster of mine ! lay big silver coins , my rooster ! " but the rooster could lay no silver coins at all , and only answered " kikeriki ! kikeriki ! kikeriki ! " then the peasant fell into a rage , wandered back to the devil 's place , complained about the rooster , and told how absolutely worthless he was . he was kindly received , and the same gentleman gave him a hand - mill . when he called out " mill grind ! " to it , it would grind as much meal as he wanted it to , and would not stop until he said : " mill , stop grinding ! " and the mill would grind out every kind of meal for which he asked . <SEP> what could the hand-mill do ? <SEP> grind as much meal as he wanted it to . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
" lay quickly , rooster of mine ! lay big silver coins , my rooster ! " but the rooster could lay no silver coins at all , and only answered " kikeriki ! kikeriki ! kikeriki ! " then the peasant fell into a rage , wandered back to the devil 's place , complained about the rooster , and told how absolutely worthless he was . he was kindly received , and the same gentleman gave him a hand - mill . when he called out " mill grind ! " to it , it would grind as much meal as he wanted it to , and would not stop until he said : " mill , stop grinding ! " and the mill would grind out every kind of meal for which he asked . <SEP> where did the peasant wander back to ? <SEP> the devil 's place . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
when the peasant set out for home , he reached the same tavern at which he had already put up in the evening , so he turned in and decided to stay over night . he was so pleased with the mill that it was impossible for him to hold his tongue ; so he told the old woman what a valuable mill he had , and showed her how it worked . but during the night , while he was asleep , the old woman came and stole his mill and put another in its place . <SEP> why was it impossible for the peasant to hold his tongue ? <SEP> he was so pleased with the mill . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
when the peasant set out for home , he reached the same tavern at which he had already put up in the evening , so he turned in and decided to stay over night . he was so pleased with the mill that it was impossible for him to hold his tongue ; so he told the old woman what a valuable mill he had , and showed her how it worked . but during the night , while he was asleep , the old woman came and stole his mill and put another in its place . <SEP> why did the old woman steal his mill ? <SEP> she wanted the mill for herself . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
" do not grieve about that , " said the gentleman , and gave him a large , large hornets ' nest , full of hornets , who flew out in swarms and stung any one whom they were told to sting , until one said " stop ! " to them . now when the peasant again came to the old woman , he told her he had a swarm of hornets who obeyed his commands . " heavens above ! " cried the woman , " that 's something worth while seeing ! " " you may see it without any trouble , " replied the peasant , and at once called : " out , out , my hornets and sting the old woman ! " and at once the entire swarm fell upon the old woman , who began to scream pitifully . she begged the peasant to please call back his hornets , and said she was only too willing to give back the rooster and the mill she had taken . <SEP> what was the old woman willing to give back to the peasant when being attacked by the hornets ? <SEP> the rooster and the mill . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
the peasant did not object to this ; but ordered his hornets to leave the old woman alone , and fly back into their house . then he went home with his rooster , his mill and his hornets , became a rich man and lived happily until he died . and he was in the habit of saying : " they have a big fair in the devil 's place , and you find real decent people there , and above all , a liberal gentleman , with whom it is a pleasure to do business . " <SEP> what happened to the peasant when he went home with his rooster, his mill and his hornets ? <SEP> he became a rich man and lived happily until he died . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig . after he had gone a while , he met a man who asked him where he was going with his pig . " i want to sell it , " answered the peasant , " but i do not know what to do to get rid of it . " " go to the devil , " said the man , " he will be the first to rid you of it . " so the peasant kept on along the broad highway . when he came to the devil 's place , there stood a man out by the wood - pile making wood . the peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil 's place . " i 'll go in and ask , " said the man , " if you will make wood in my stead while i am gone . " " yes , i will do that gladly , " said the peasant , took the ax , stood at the wood - pile and began to make wood . and he worked and worked until evening came ; but the man did not return to tell him whether they would or would not buy a pig in the devil 's place . at length another man came that way , and the peasant asked him whether he would make wood in his stead , for it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working . so the man took the ax and stood there making wood , and the peasant went into the devil 's place himself , and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig .  <SEP> why did the peasant go to the devil's place ? <SEP> he wanted to sell his pig . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
so when they had reached the gentleman 's house , and the peasant had given him the pig , he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so . then the peasant went his way , well content with his bargain . but on the way home he stayed overnight at a tavern kept by an old woman . and he was so exceedingly happy about his splendid rooster , that he had to boast about him to the old woman , and show her how he went about laying silver coins . and at night , when the peasant was fast asleep , the old woman came and took away his rooster , and put another in its place . no sooner did the peasant awake in the morning than he wanted to set his rooster to work . " lay quickly , rooster of mine ! lay big silver coins , my rooster ! " but the rooster could lay no silver coins at all , and only answered " kikeriki ! kikeriki ! kikeriki ! " then the peasant fell into a rage , wandered back to the devil 's place , complained about the rooster , and told how absolutely worthless he was . he was kindly received , and the same gentleman gave him a hand - mill . when he called out " mill grind ! " to it , it would grind as much meal as he wanted it to , and would not stop until he said : " mill , stop grinding ! " and the mill would grind out every kind of meal for which he asked . when the peasant awoke in the morning , he was in a great hurry to test his mill ; but he could not make it obey . " mill grind ! " he cried . but the mill stood still . then he said : " dear mill , grind wheat meal ! " but it had no effect . " then grind rye meal ! " he shouted ; but that did not help , either . " well , then , grind peas ! " but the mill did not seem to hear ; but stood as still as though it had never turned a single time in all its life . then the peasant took the road back to the devil 's place again , and at once hunted up the gentleman who had purchased his pig , and told him the mill would grind no more meal .  <SEP> what did the gentleman give the peasant ? <SEP> a hand - mill . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . <SEP> what did the king reign over ? <SEP> a great kingdom . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . <SEP> who was loved above everything else in the world ? <SEP> the little girl . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . <SEP> why was there grief throughout the land ? <SEP> the queen fell ill and died . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . <SEP> why would the king not marry again ? <SEP> he loved his queen too much . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . <SEP> how did the king feel when the queen fell ill and died ? <SEP> sad . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> what did the king's daughter become with each succeeding day ? <SEP> taller and more beautiful . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> who was among the women who waited on the princess and carried out her commands ? <SEP> a woman who had formerly been married and had two daughters . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> what did the woman do when the queen died ? <SEP> she at once began to plan how she might marry the king . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> why did the woman want to marry the king ? <SEP> her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> how did the woman plan to marry the king ? <SEP> drew the young princess to her , paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . <SEP> what will happen because the woman paid the young princess fulsome compliments on everything she said and did ? <SEP> the woman and king will marry . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
a long time passed , and with each succeeding day the king 's daughter grew taller and more beautiful , and her father granted her every wish . now there were a number of women who had nothing to do but wait on the princess and carry out her commands . among them was a woman who had formerly married and had two daughters . she had an engaging appearance , a smooth tongue and a winning way of talking , and she was as soft and pliable as silk ; but at heart she was full of machinations and falseness . now when the queen died , she at once began to plan how she might marry the king , so that her daughters might be kept like royal princesses . with this end in view , she drew the young princess to her . she paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did , and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife . there was much said on this head , early and late , and before very long the princess came to believe that the woman knew all there was to know about everything . so she asked her what sort of a woman the king ought to choose for a wife . the woman answered as sweet as honey : " it is not my affair to give advice in this matter ; yet he should choose for queen some one who is kind to the little princess . for one thing i know , and that is , were i fortunate enough to be chosen , my one thought would be to do all i could for the little princess , and if she wished to wash her hands , one of my daughters would have to hold the wash - bowl and the other hand her the towel . " this and much more she told the king 's daughter , and the princess believed it , as children will .  <SEP> why did the princess believe that the woman knew all there was to know about everything ? <SEP> the woman talked to the princess frequently and paid her compliments . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
there was much said on this head , early and late , and before very long the princess came to believe that the woman knew all there was to know about everything . so she asked her what sort of a woman the king ought to choose for a wife . the woman answered as sweet as honey : " it is not my affair to give advice in this matter ; yet he should choose for queen some one who is kind to the little princess . for one thing i know , and that is , were i fortunate enough to be chosen , my one thought would be to do all i could for the little princess , and if she wished to wash her hands , one of my daughters would have to hold the wash - bowl and the other hand her the towel . " this and much more she told the king 's daughter , and the princess believed it , as children will . <SEP> why did the king's daughter believe the woman ? <SEP> she was a child . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
from that day forward the princess gave her father no peace , and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady . yet he did not want to marry her . but the king 's daughter gave him no rest . she urged him again and again , as the false court lady had persuaded her to do . finally , one day , when she again brought up the matter , the king cried : " i can see you will end by having your own way about this , even though it be entirely against my will . but i will do so only on one condition . " " what is the condition ? " asked the princess . " if i marry again , " said the king , " it is only because of your ceaseless pleading . therefore you must promise that , if in the future you are not satisfied with your step - mother or your step - sisters , not a single lament or complaint on your part reaches my ears . " this she promised the king , and it was agreed that he should marry the court lady and make her queen of the whole country . <SEP> what did the princess beg her father to do ? <SEP> to marry the good court lady . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
once upon a time there was a king , who reigned over a great kingdom . he had a queen , but only a single daughter , a girl . in consequence the little girl was the apple of her parents ' eyes . they loved her above everything else in the world , and their dearest thought was the pleasure they would take in her when she was older . but the unexpected often happens . before the king 's daughter began to grow up , the queen her mother fell ill and died . it is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned , not alone in the royal castle , but throughout the land ; for the queen had been beloved of all . the king grieved so that he would not marry again , and his one joy was the little princess . from that day forward the princess gave her father no peace , and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady . yet he did not want to marry her . but the king 's daughter gave him no rest . she urged him again and again , as the false court lady had persuaded her to do . finally , one day , when she again brought up the matter , the king cried : " i can see you will end by having your own way about this , even though it be entirely against my will . but i will do so only on one condition . " " what is the condition ? " asked the princess . " if i marry again , " said the king , " it is only because of your ceaseless pleading . therefore you must promise that , if in the future you are not satisfied with your step - mother or your step - sisters , not a single lament or complaint on your part reaches my ears . " this she promised the king , and it was agreed that he should marry the court lady and make her queen of the whole country .  <SEP> why did the king not want to marry the good court lady ? <SEP> he loved his late wife . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
from that day forward the princess gave her father no peace , and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady . yet he did not want to marry her . but the king 's daughter gave him no rest . she urged him again and again , as the false court lady had persuaded her to do . finally , one day , when she again brought up the matter , the king cried : " i can see you will end by having your own way about this , even though it be entirely against my will . but i will do so only on one condition . " " what is the condition ? " asked the princess . " if i marry again , " said the king , " it is only because of your ceaseless pleading . therefore you must promise that , if in the future you are not satisfied with your step - mother or your step - sisters , not a single lament or complaint on your part reaches my ears . " this she promised the king , and it was agreed that he should marry the court lady and make her queen of the whole country . <SEP> what did the princess promise her father ? <SEP> not let a single lament or complaint each the king 's ears . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
from that day forward the princess gave her father no peace , and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady . yet he did not want to marry her . but the king 's daughter gave him no rest . she urged him again and again , as the false court lady had persuaded her to do . finally , one day , when she again brought up the matter , the king cried : " i can see you will end by having your own way about this , even though it be entirely against my will . but i will do so only on one condition . " " what is the condition ? " asked the princess . " if i marry again , " said the king , " it is only because of your ceaseless pleading . therefore you must promise that , if in the future you are not satisfied with your step - mother or your step - sisters , not a single lament or complaint on your part reaches my ears . " this she promised the king , and it was agreed that he should marry the court lady and make her queen of the whole country . <SEP> what would the court lady become when she marries the king ? <SEP> queen of the whole country . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
as time passed on , the king 's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide . the queen 's daughters , on the other hand , were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . hence it was not surprising that many youths came from east and west to sue for the princess 's hand ; but that none of them took any interest in the queen 's daughters . this made the step - mother very angry ; . she concealed her rage , and was as sweet and friendly as ever . among the wooers was a king 's son from another country . he was young and brave , and since he loved the princess dearly , she accepted his proposal and they plighted their troth . the queen observed this with an angry eye , for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . she therefor made up her mind that the young pair should never be happy together , and from that time on thought only of how she might part them from each other . <SEP> what were the queen's daughters like ? <SEP> homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
as time passed on , the king 's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide . the queen 's daughters , on the other hand , were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . hence it was not surprising that many youths came from east and west to sue for the princess 's hand ; but that none of them took any interest in the queen 's daughters . this made the step - mother very angry ; . she concealed her rage , and was as sweet and friendly as ever . among the wooers was a king 's son from another country . he was young and brave , and since he loved the princess dearly , she accepted his proposal and they plighted their troth . the queen observed this with an angry eye , for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . she therefor made up her mind that the young pair should never be happy together , and from that time on thought only of how she might part them from each other . <SEP> why did no youths take interest in the queen's daughters ? <SEP> they were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
as time passed on , the king 's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide . the queen 's daughters , on the other hand , were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . hence it was not surprising that many youths came from east and west to sue for the princess 's hand ; but that none of them took any interest in the queen 's daughters . this made the step - mother very angry ; . she concealed her rage , and was as sweet and friendly as ever . among the wooers was a king 's son from another country . he was young and brave , and since he loved the princess dearly , she accepted his proposal and they plighted their troth . the queen observed this with an angry eye , for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . she therefor made up her mind that the young pair should never be happy together , and from that time on thought only of how she might part them from each other . <SEP> how did the queen feel when no one was interested in her daughters ? <SEP> very angry . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
as time passed on , the king 's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide . the queen 's daughters , on the other hand , were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . hence it was not surprising that many youths came from east and west to sue for the princess 's hand ; but that none of them took any interest in the queen 's daughters . this made the step - mother very angry ; . she concealed her rage , and was as sweet and friendly as ever . among the wooers was a king 's son from another country . he was young and brave , and since he loved the princess dearly , she accepted his proposal and they plighted their troth . the queen observed this with an angry eye , for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . she therefor made up her mind that the young pair should never be happy together , and from that time on thought only of how she might part them from each other . <SEP> why did the queen observe with an angry eye ? <SEP> it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
as time passed on , the king 's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide . the queen 's daughters , on the other hand , were homely , evil of disposition , and no one knew any good of them . hence it was not surprising that many youths came from east and west to sue for the princess 's hand ; but that none of them took any interest in the queen 's daughters . this made the step - mother very angry ; . she concealed her rage , and was as sweet and friendly as ever . among the wooers was a king 's son from another country . he was young and brave , and since he loved the princess dearly , she accepted his proposal and they plighted their troth . the queen observed this with an angry eye , for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters . she therefor made up her mind that the young pair should never be happy together , and from that time on thought only of how she might part them from each other . <SEP> what did the queen think only of ? <SEP> how she might part the prince and princess from each other . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> what did the princess find out because the king was compelled to go to war ? <SEP> she found out the kind of step - mother she had . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> who was every bit as malicious as their mother ? <SEP> the queen 's daughters . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> what did the prince get turned into ? <SEP> a werewolf . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> how did the queen turn the prince into a werewolf ? <SEP> black arts . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> how did the princess feel when she learned the prince had gone missing ? <SEP> sad . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> why was the queen's heart filled with joy ? <SEP> all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . <SEP> why did the queen show her true nature ? <SEP> she no longer had to pretend because the king was gone . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . <SEP> where did the king's daughter think to go ? <SEP> the forest . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . <SEP> why did the king's daughter want to go into the forest ? <SEP> to forget her surpassing grief . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . <SEP> what happened because the princess begged the queen so winningly ? <SEP> the queen was unable to say no . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . <SEP> what did the queen order one of her daughters do ? <SEP> accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . <SEP> how did the queen's daughter feel about the king's daughter's sorrow ? <SEP> vexed . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
after they had walked a while , they came to a little hut , lying deep in the dark forest . by then the king 's daughter was very thirsty , and wanted to go into the little hut with her step - sister , in order to get a drink of water . but the queen 's daughter was much annoyed and said : " is it not enough for me to be running around here in the wilderness with you ? now you even want me , who am a princess , to enter that wretched little hut . no , i will not step a foot over the threshold ! if you want to go in , why go in alone ! " the king 's daughter lost no time ; but did as her step - sister advised , and stepped into the little hut . when she entered she saw an old woman sitting there on a bench , so enfeebled by age that her head shook . <SEP> where did girls come to after having walked a while ? <SEP> a little hut . <SEP> setting <SEP> explicit
after they had walked a while , they came to a little hut , lying deep in the dark forest . by then the king 's daughter was very thirsty , and wanted to go into the little hut with her step - sister , in order to get a drink of water . but the queen 's daughter was much annoyed and said : " is it not enough for me to be running around here in the wilderness with you ? now you even want me , who am a princess , to enter that wretched little hut . no , i will not step a foot over the threshold ! if you want to go in , why go in alone ! " the king 's daughter lost no time ; but did as her step - sister advised , and stepped into the little hut . when she entered she saw an old woman sitting there on a bench , so enfeebled by age that her head shook . <SEP> why did the king's daughter want to go into the little hut with her step-sister ? <SEP> the king 's daughter was very thirsty . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
after they had walked a while , they came to a little hut , lying deep in the dark forest . by then the king 's daughter was very thirsty , and wanted to go into the little hut with her step - sister , in order to get a drink of water . but the queen 's daughter was much annoyed and said : " is it not enough for me to be running around here in the wilderness with you ? now you even want me , who am a princess , to enter that wretched little hut . no , i will not step a foot over the threshold ! if you want to go in , why go in alone ! " the king 's daughter lost no time ; but did as her step - sister advised , and stepped into the little hut . when she entered she saw an old woman sitting there on a bench , so enfeebled by age that her head shook . <SEP> who did the king's daughter see sitting in the little hut ? <SEP> an old woman . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
the princess spoke to her in her usual friendly way : " good evening , motherkin . may i ask you for a drink of water ? " " you are heartily welcome to it , " said the old woman . " who may you be , that step beneath my lowly roof and greet me in so winning a way ? " the king 's daughter told her who she was , and that she had gone out to relieve her heart , in order to forget her great grief . " and what may your great grief be ? " asked the old woman . " no doubt it is my fate to grieve , " said the princess , " and i can never be happy again . i have lost my only love , and god alone knows whether i shall ever see him again . " and she also told her why it was , and the tears ran down her cheeks in streams , so that any one would have felt sorry for her . when she had ended the old woman said : " you did well in confiding your sorrow to me . i have lived long and may be able to give you a bit of good advice . when you leave here you will see a lily growing from the ground . this lily is not like other lilies , however , but has many strange virtues . run quickly over to it , and pick it . if you can do that then you need not worry , for then one will appear who will tell you what to do . " then they parted and the king 's daughter thanked her and went her way ; while the old woman sat on the bench and wagged her head . but the queen 's daughter had been standing without the hut the entire time , vexing herself , and grumbling because the king 's daughter had taken so long . <SEP> how did the queen's daughter feel when the king's daughter went into the little hut ? <SEP> annoyed . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
so when the latter stepped out , she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step - sister , as was to be expected . yet she paid no attention to her , and thought only of how she might find the flower of which the old woman had spoken . they went through the forest , and suddenly she saw a beautiful white lily growing in their very path . she was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it ; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . <SEP> why did the queen's daughter pay no attention to the king's daughter ? <SEP> she thought only of how she might find the flower of which the old woman had spoken . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
so when the latter stepped out , she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step - sister , as was to be expected . yet she paid no attention to her , and thought only of how she might find the flower of which the old woman had spoken . they went through the forest , and suddenly she saw a beautiful white lily growing in their very path . she was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it ; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . <SEP> what did the lily do when it was picked up ? <SEP> disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
so when the latter stepped out , she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step - sister , as was to be expected . yet she paid no attention to her , and thought only of how she might find the flower of which the old woman had spoken . they went through the forest , and suddenly she saw a beautiful white lily growing in their very path . she was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it ; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . <SEP> what will the king's daughter do when the lily reappears further away ? <SEP> chase after it . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
the king 's daughter was now filled with eagerness , no longer listened to her step - sister 's calls , and kept right on running . yet each time when she stooped to pick the lily , it suddenly disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . thus it went for some time , and the princess was drawn further and further into the deep forest . but the lily continued to stand , and disappear and move further away , and each time the flower seemed larger and more beautiful than before . at length the princess came to a high hill , and as she looked toward its summit , there stood the lily high on the naked rock , glittering as white and radiant as the brightest star . the king 's daughter now began to climb the hill , and in her eagerness she paid no attention to stones nor steepness . and when at last she reached the summit of the hill , lo and behold ! the lily no longer evaded her grasp ; but remained where it was , and the princess stooped and picked it and hid it in her bosom , and so heartfelt was her happiness that she forgot her step - sisters and everything else in the world . <SEP> how did the king's daughter feel about the lily ? <SEP> eagerness . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
the king 's daughter was now filled with eagerness , no longer listened to her step - sister 's calls , and kept right on running . yet each time when she stooped to pick the lily , it suddenly disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away . thus it went for some time , and the princess was drawn further and further into the deep forest . but the lily continued to stand , and disappear and move further away , and each time the flower seemed larger and more beautiful than before . at length the princess came to a high hill , and as she looked toward its summit , there stood the lily high on the naked rock , glittering as white and radiant as the brightest star . the king 's daughter now began to climb the hill , and in her eagerness she paid no attention to stones nor steepness . and when at last she reached the summit of the hill , lo and behold ! the lily no longer evaded her grasp ; but remained where it was , and the princess stooped and picked it and hid it in her bosom , and so heartfelt was her happiness that she forgot her step - sisters and everything else in the world . <SEP> what made the king's daughter forget her step-sisters and everyone else in the world ? <SEP> so heartfelt was her happiness . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
for a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower . then she suddenly began to wonder what her step - mother would say when she came home after having remained out so long . and she looked around , in order to find the way back to the castle . but as she looked around , behold , the sun had set and no more than a little strip of daylight rested on the summit of the hill . below her lay the forest , so dark and shadowed that she had no faith in her ability to find the homeward path . and now she grew very sad , for she could think of nothing better to do than to spend the night on the hill - top . she seated herself on the rock , put her hand to her cheek , cried , and thought of her unkind step - mother and step - sisters , and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned . and she thought of her father , the king , who was away at war , and of the love of her heart , whom she would never see again . she grieved so bitterly that she did not even know she wept . night came and darkness , and the stars rose , and still the princess sat in the same spot and wept . and while she sat there , lost in her thoughts , she heard a voice say : " good evening , lovely maiden ! why do you sit here so sad and lonely ? " she stood up hastily , and felt much embarrassed , which was not surprising . when she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man , who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble . <SEP> why did the king's daughter not have faith in her ability to find the homeward path ? <SEP> below her lay the forest , so dark and shadowed . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
for a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower . then she suddenly began to wonder what her step - mother would say when she came home after having remained out so long . and she looked around , in order to find the way back to the castle . but as she looked around , behold , the sun had set and no more than a little strip of daylight rested on the summit of the hill . below her lay the forest , so dark and shadowed that she had no faith in her ability to find the homeward path . and now she grew very sad , for she could think of nothing better to do than to spend the night on the hill - top . she seated herself on the rock , put her hand to her cheek , cried , and thought of her unkind step - mother and step - sisters , and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned . and she thought of her father , the king , who was away at war , and of the love of her heart , whom she would never see again . she grieved so bitterly that she did not even know she wept . night came and darkness , and the stars rose , and still the princess sat in the same spot and wept . and while she sat there , lost in her thoughts , she heard a voice say : " good evening , lovely maiden ! why do you sit here so sad and lonely ? " she stood up hastily , and felt much embarrassed , which was not surprising . when she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man , who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble . <SEP> how did the king's daughter feel about spending the night on the hill-top ? <SEP> very sad . <SEP> feeling <SEP> explicit
for a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower . then she suddenly began to wonder what her step - mother would say when she came home after having remained out so long . and she looked around , in order to find the way back to the castle . but as she looked around , behold , the sun had set and no more than a little strip of daylight rested on the summit of the hill . below her lay the forest , so dark and shadowed that she had no faith in her ability to find the homeward path . and now she grew very sad , for she could think of nothing better to do than to spend the night on the hill - top . she seated herself on the rock , put her hand to her cheek , cried , and thought of her unkind step - mother and step - sisters , and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned . and she thought of her father , the king , who was away at war , and of the love of her heart , whom she would never see again . she grieved so bitterly that she did not even know she wept . night came and darkness , and the stars rose , and still the princess sat in the same spot and wept . and while she sat there , lost in her thoughts , she heard a voice say : " good evening , lovely maiden ! why do you sit here so sad and lonely ? " she stood up hastily , and felt much embarrassed , which was not surprising . when she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man , who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble . <SEP> how did the tiny old man seem ? <SEP> very humble . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
for a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower . then she suddenly began to wonder what her step - mother would say when she came home after having remained out so long . and she looked around , in order to find the way back to the castle . but as she looked around , behold , the sun had set and no more than a little strip of daylight rested on the summit of the hill . below her lay the forest , so dark and shadowed that she had no faith in her ability to find the homeward path . and now she grew very sad , for she could think of nothing better to do than to spend the night on the hill - top . she seated herself on the rock , put her hand to her cheek , cried , and thought of her unkind step - mother and step - sisters , and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned . and she thought of her father , the king , who was away at war , and of the love of her heart , whom she would never see again . she grieved so bitterly that she did not even know she wept . night came and darkness , and the stars rose , and still the princess sat in the same spot and wept . and while she sat there , lost in her thoughts , she heard a voice say : " good evening , lovely maiden ! why do you sit here so sad and lonely ? " she stood up hastily , and felt much embarrassed , which was not surprising . when she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man , who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble . <SEP> what will the tiny old man do for the king's daughter ? <SEP> help her . <SEP> prediction <SEP> implicit
she answered : " yes , it is no doubt my fate to grieve , and never be happy again . i have lost my dearest love , and now i have lost my way in the forest , and am afraid of being devoured by wild beasts . " " as to that , " said the old man , " you need have no fear . if you will do exactly as i say , i will help you . " this made the princess happy ; for she felt that all the rest of the world had abandoned her . then the old man drew out flint and steel and said : " lovely maiden , you must first build a fire . " she did as he told her , gathered moss , brush and dry sticks , struck sparks and lit such a fire on the hill - top that the flame blazed up to the skies . that done the old man said : " go on a bit and you will find a kettle of tar , and bring the kettle to me . " this the king 's daughter did . the old man continued : " now put the kettle on the fire . " and the princess did that as well . when the tar began to boil , the old man said : " now throw your white lily into the kettle . " the princess thought this a harsh command , and earnestly begged to be allowed to keep the lily . but the old man said : " did you not promise to obey my every command ? do as i tell you or you will regret it . " the king 's daughter turned away her eyes , and threw the lily into the boiling tar ; but it was altogether against her will , so fond had she grown of the beautiful flower . <SEP> why did the princess not want to throw the lily into the kettle ? <SEP> so fond had she grown of the beautiful flower . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> explicit
the moment she did so a hollow roar , like that of some wild beast , sounded from the forest . it came nearer , and turned into such a terrible howling that all the surrounding hills reechoed it . finally there was a cracking and breaking among the trees , the bushes were thrust aside , and the princess saw a great grey wolf come running out of the forest and straight up the hill . she was much frightened and would gladly have run away , had she been able . but the old man said : " make haste , run to the edge of the hill and the moment the wolf comes along , upset the kettle on him ! " the princess was terrified , and hardly knew what she was about . yet she did as the old man said , took the kettle , ran to the edge of the hill , and poured its contents over the wolf just as he was about to run up . and then a strange thing happened : no sooner had she done so , than the wolf was transformed , cast off his thick grey pelt , and in place of the horrible wild beast , there stood a handsome young man , looking up to the hill . and when the king 's daughter collected herself and looked at him , she saw that it was really and truly her lover , who had been turned into a werewolf . <SEP> what happened because the princess poured the contents of the kettle over the wolf ? <SEP> the wolf was transformed , cast off his thick grey pelt , and there stood a handsome young man . <SEP> outcome resolution <SEP> explicit
the moment she did so a hollow roar , like that of some wild beast , sounded from the forest . it came nearer , and turned into such a terrible howling that all the surrounding hills reechoed it . finally there was a cracking and breaking among the trees , the bushes were thrust aside , and the princess saw a great grey wolf come running out of the forest and straight up the hill . she was much frightened and would gladly have run away , had she been able . but the old man said : " make haste , run to the edge of the hill and the moment the wolf comes along , upset the kettle on him ! " the princess was terrified , and hardly knew what she was about . yet she did as the old man said , took the kettle , ran to the edge of the hill , and poured its contents over the wolf just as he was about to run up . and then a strange thing happened : no sooner had she done so , than the wolf was transformed , cast off his thick grey pelt , and in place of the horrible wild beast , there stood a handsome young man , looking up to the hill . and when the king 's daughter collected herself and looked at him , she saw that it was really and truly her lover , who had been turned into a werewolf . <SEP> who was the handsome young man ? <SEP> the king 's daughter 's lover . <SEP> character <SEP> explicit
it is easy to imagine how the princess felt . she opened her arms , and could neither ask questions nor reply to them , so moved and delighted was she . but the prince ran hastily up the hill , embraced her tenderly , and thanked her for delivering him . nor did he forget the little old man , but thanked him with many civil expressions for his powerful aid . then they sat down together on the hill - top , and had a pleasant talk . the prince told how he had been turned into a wolf , and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest ; and the princess told of her grief , and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone . so they sat the whole night through , and never noticed it until the stars grew pale and it was light enough to see . when the sun rose , they saw that a broad path led from the hill - top straight to the royal castle ; for they had a view of the whole surrounding country from the hill - top . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything out yonder ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see a horseman on a foaming horse , riding as fast as he can . " then the old man said : " he is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father . and your father with all his army is following him . " that pleased the princess above all things , and she wanted to descend the hill at once to meet her father . but the old man detained her and said : " wait a while , it is too early yet . let us wait and see how everything turns out . " <SEP> how did the princess feel about being reunited with the prince ? <SEP> excited . <SEP> feeling <SEP> implicit
it is easy to imagine how the princess felt . she opened her arms , and could neither ask questions nor reply to them , so moved and delighted was she . but the prince ran hastily up the hill , embraced her tenderly , and thanked her for delivering him . nor did he forget the little old man , but thanked him with many civil expressions for his powerful aid . then they sat down together on the hill - top , and had a pleasant talk . the prince told how he had been turned into a wolf , and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest ; and the princess told of her grief , and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone . so they sat the whole night through , and never noticed it until the stars grew pale and it was light enough to see . when the sun rose , they saw that a broad path led from the hill - top straight to the royal castle ; for they had a view of the whole surrounding country from the hill - top . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything out yonder ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see a horseman on a foaming horse , riding as fast as he can . " then the old man said : " he is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father . and your father with all his army is following him . " that pleased the princess above all things , and she wanted to descend the hill at once to meet her father . but the old man detained her and said : " wait a while , it is too early yet . let us wait and see how everything turns out . " <SEP> what did the princess want to do when she saw the king's messenger ? <SEP> descend the hill at once to meet her father . <SEP> action <SEP> explicit
it is easy to imagine how the princess felt . she opened her arms , and could neither ask questions nor reply to them , so moved and delighted was she . but the prince ran hastily up the hill , embraced her tenderly , and thanked her for delivering him . nor did he forget the little old man , but thanked him with many civil expressions for his powerful aid . then they sat down together on the hill - top , and had a pleasant talk . the prince told how he had been turned into a wolf , and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest ; and the princess told of her grief , and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone . so they sat the whole night through , and never noticed it until the stars grew pale and it was light enough to see . when the sun rose , they saw that a broad path led from the hill - top straight to the royal castle ; for they had a view of the whole surrounding country from the hill - top . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything out yonder ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see a horseman on a foaming horse , riding as fast as he can . " then the old man said : " he is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father . and your father with all his army is following him . " that pleased the princess above all things , and she wanted to descend the hill at once to meet her father . but the old man detained her and said : " wait a while , it is too early yet . let us wait and see how everything turns out . " time passed and the sun was shining brightly , and its rays fell straight on the royal castle down below . then the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " replied the princess , " i see a number of people coming out of my father 's castle , and some are going along the road , and others into the forest . " the old man said : " those are your step - mother 's servants . she has sent some to meet the king and welcome him but she has sent others to the forest to look for you . " at these words the princess grew uneasy , and wished to go down to the queen 's servants . but the old man withheld her and said : " wait a while , and let us first see how everything turns out . " more time passed , and the king 's daughter was still looking down the road from which the king would appear , when the old man said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " answered the princess , " there is a great commotion in my father 's castle , and they are hanging it with black . " the old man said : " that is your step - mother and her people . they will assure your father that you are dead . " then the king 's daughter felt bitter anguish , and she implored from the depths of her heart : " let me go , let me go , so that i may spare my father this anguish ! " but the old man detained her and said : " no , wait , it is still too early . let us first see how everything turns out . " again time passed , the sun lay high above the fields , and the warm air blew over meadow and forest . the royal maid and youth still sat on the hill - top with the old man , where we had left them . then they saw a little cloud rise against the horizon , far away in the distance , and the little cloud grew larger and larger , and came nearer and nearer along the road , and as it moved one could see it was agleam with weapons , and nodding helmets , and waving flags , one could hear the rattle of swords , and the neighing of horses , and finally recognize the banner of the king . it is not hard to imagine how pleased the king 's daughter was , and how she insisted on going down and greeting her father . but the old man held her back and said : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything happening at the castle ? " " yes , " answered the princess , " i can see my step - mother and step - sisters coming out , dressed in mourning , holding white kerchiefs to their faces , and weeping bitterly . " the old man answered : " now they are pretending to weep because of your death . wait just a little while longer . we have not yet seen how everything will turn out . " after a time the old man said again : " lovely maiden , turn around ! do you see anything down below ? " " yes , " said the princess , " i see people bringing a black coffin - now my father is having it opened . look , the queen and her daughters are down on their knees , and my father is threatening them with his sword ! " then the old man said : " your father wished to see your body , and so your evil step - mother had to confess the truth . " when the princess heard that she said earnestly : " let me go , let me go , so that i may comfort my father in his great sorrow ! " but the old man held her back and said : " take my advice and stay here a little while longer . we have not yet seen how everything will turn out . "  <SEP> why did the old man tell the princess to stay there a little while longer ? <SEP> they had not yet seen how everything will turn out . <SEP> causal relationship <SEP> implicit
an opportunity soon offered itself . news came that the enemy had entered the land , and the king was compelled to go to war . now the princess began to find out the kind of step - mother she had . for no sooner had the king departed than the queen showed her true nature , and was just as harsh and unkind as she formerly had pretended to be friendly and obliging . not a day went by without her scolding and threatening the princess and the queen 's daughters were every bit as malicious as their mother . but the king 's son , the lover of the princess , found himself in even worse position . he had gone hunting one day , had lost his way , and could not find his people . then the queen used her black arts and turned him into a werewolf , to wander through the forest for the remainder of his life in that shape . when evening came and there was no sign of the prince , his people returned home , and one can imagine what sorrow they caused when the princess learned how the hunt had ended . she grieved , wept day and night , and was not to be consoled . but the queen laughed at her grief , and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished . now it chanced one day , as the king 's daughter was sitting alone in her room , that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared . she went to her step - mother and begged permission to go out into the forest , in order to forget her surpassing grief . the queen did not want to grant her request , for she always preferred saying no to yes . but the princess begged her so winningly that at last she was unable to say no , and she ordered one of her daughters to go along with her and watch her . that caused a great deal of discussion , for neither of the step - daughters wanted to go with her . each made all sorts of excuses , and asked what pleasures were there in going with the king 's daughter , who did nothing but cry . but the queen had the last word in the end , and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess , even though it be against her will . so the girls wandered out of the castle into the forest . the king 's daughter walked among the trees , and listened to the song of the birds , and thought of her lover , for whom she longed , and who was now no longer there . and the queen 's daughter followed her , vexed , in her malice , with the king 's daughter and her sorrow . after they had walked a while , they came to a little hut , lying deep in the dark forest . by then the king 's daughter was very thirsty , and wanted to go into the little hut with her step - sister , in order to get a drink of water . but the queen 's daughter was much annoyed and said : " is it not enough for me to be running around here in the wilderness with you ? now you even want me , who am a princess , to enter that wretched little hut . no , i will not step a foot over the threshold ! if you want to go in , why go in alone ! " the king 's daughter lost no time ; but did as her step - sister advised , and stepped into the little hut . when she entered she saw an old woman sitting there on a bench , so enfeebled by age that her head shook .  <SEP> how did the queen treat the princess after the king left ? <SEP> poorly . <SEP> action <SEP> implicit
once the schoolmaster of etnedal was staying in the mountains to fish . he was very fond of reading , and so he always carried one book or another along with him , with which he could lie down , and which he read on holidays , or when the weather forced him to stay in the little fishing - hut . one sunday morning , as he was lying there reading , it seemed as though he could hear church bells ; sometimes they sounded faintly , as though from a great distance ; at other times the sound was clear , as though carried by the wind . he listened long and with surprise ; and did not trust his ears -- for he knew that it was impossible to hear the bells of the parish church so far out among the hills -- yet suddenly they sounded quite clearly on his ear . so he laid aside his book , stood up
